a.p. møller - mærsk a/s
all the way
a.p. møller - mærsk a/s 
esplanaden 50
dk–1098 copenhagen k 
tel. +45 33 63 33 63 
company reg. no. 22756214
www.maersk.com
     2020  
  sustainability  
       report
table of   
   contents
4 
introduction
4 
business model and performance highlights
6 
letter from our ceo
8 
strategy, governance and materiality
42 
progress overview
44 
data and assurance
44 
performance data
46 
sustainability accounting principles
48 
independent assurance report
12 
 strategic sustainability priorities
13 
 enabling sustainable trade
16 
 decarbonising logistics
23 
 sustainability in our end-to-end offerings
25 
 responding to a pandemic
about the report
this is the annual sustainability report of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s 
(hereinafter referred to as a.p. moller - maersk or maersk as the 
consolidated group of companies and a.p. møller - mærsk a/s as the 
parent company). the report covers activities in the 2020 calendar year. 
our approach to sustainability reporting is to focus on material issues 
and activities, in line with stakeholder concerns and relevance to our 
business and society in terms of context, completeness and balance. we 
strive for optimal accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability in the way 
we communicate. this report also represents our statutory statement on 
social responsibility, underrepresented gender and diversity in accordance 
with sections 99a & b and 107d of the danish financial statements act.
as a supplement to the annual sustainability report, we prepare an esg 
data overview of key performance indicators as well as sasb and tcfd 
index tables. the esg overview can be downloaded at: https://investor.
maersk.com under files for download at the release of the annual report. 
previous years’ data and our un global compact communication on 
progress table are also available online. please visit  
https://www.maersk.com/about/sustainability/reports.
decarbonising logistics, page 16
safety, page 30
enabling sustainable trade, page 13
29 
 responsible business practices
30 
safety
32 
responsible ship recycling
34 
diversity and inclusion
36 
employee relations
37 
responsible procurement
38 
air emissions
39 
ocean health
40 
anti-corruption
41 
responsible tax
responding to a pandemic, page 25
3
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
2
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
contents
warehousing &                     
          distribution 
export
     terminal
ocean
    transport
net zero co2
net zero co2
import
    terminal
customer's 
     warehouse or shop
market
rail 
   freight
warehousing
    & distribution
for our customers
by connecting and simplifying our 70,000 
customers' supply chains, we enable them 
to focus on growing their business.
for the environment
our industry is a significant contributor 
to global ghg emissions, and we are 
committed to decarbonising our 
operations. through investments and 
collaboration. read more on pp. 16-22.
financial capital
we have a strong balance sheet and 
are committed to remaining investment 
grade-rated.
technology and it
technology and it are key to 
enhancing our operational 
performance and solutions 
for our customers.
for society 
with global presence and potential for impact comes 
the responsibility and opportunity to ensure open, 
inclusive and sustainable trade. read more on pp. 13-15.
for our investors
in our transformation to become 
the global integrator of container 
logistics, we continue to innovate 
and grow shareholder value.
natural resources 
our business relies on natural resources, 
in particular steel (the main component 
of our vessels) and oil for fuel.
stakeholder relationships 
and partnerships
we rely on constructive relationships 
with e.g. customers, suppliers, peers 
and authorities to maintain supportive 
framework conditions. see our key 
partnerships on p. 10.
our people and culture
our talented and diverse group of 
80,000 employees live our core 
values every day as they help 
customers realise their ambitions.
start destination
end destination
our brand
for more than a century, we have built 
partnerships with customers, enabling them 
to prosper by facilitating global trade.
for our people
our people bring key skills and capabilities to our business 
and in turn we must keep them safe and engaged while 
offering interesting career paths in enabling global trade. 
read about our work on safety on pp. 30-31. 
assets and end-to-end 
delivery network
our assets, supplier relationships 
and expertise in end-to-end delivery 
networks ensure our customers 
resilient supply chains.
what we do and  
 
how we create value
a.p. moller - maersk enables its customers to trade and grow by transporting 
goods anywhere. we work to provide customers with end-to-end logistics 
products and services, taking complexity out of global value chains.
value created
resources
39,740
8,226
revenue  
(usd million)
ebitda 
(usd million)
see more performance data on pp. 44-45
46.3%
relative co2 
reduction 
(percentage vs 
2008 baseline)
33,902
19,017
305
greenhouse gas 
emissions  
(1,000 tonnes co2 eq.)
direct emissions 
(scope 1)
indirect emissions  
(scope 2),  
location-based
value chain 
emissions  
(scope 3)
2020 
performance 
highlights
4
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
5
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
business model and performance highlights
introduction
introduction
letter from   
       our ceo
2020 was year of contrasts. while the pace of 
modern life slowed down due to restrictions  
or lockdowns, trends and change agendas on  
digitisation and sustainability accelerated 
during the covid-19 pandemic. while some 
industries came to a sudden halt others surged. 
and while lives and livelihoods were lost at 
tragic rates, human ingenuity and adaptability 
rose to new heights.
even though borders closed, air traffic 
stopped and roads blocked across the globe, 
global supply chains remained open. the 
geographical presence and leadership position 
of a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) enabled 
us to find new ways of keeping essential 
goods moving for customers and societies, 
as they kept businesses running and fought 
the virus. just as we in our company focused 
on protecting our employees, who play an 
instrumental role in moving global trade while 
dealing with long shifts at sea and disruptive, 
new routines on shore. i remain tremendously 
proud to experience how we responded to 
this global emergency by showing resilience, 
innovation and a natural willingness to care for 
colleagues, serve customers and help society 
respond and recover. i am at the same time 
saddened by the fact that the covid-19 virus  
has claimed the lives of some of our colleagues.
sustainability as a fully integrated  
business priority
even as the urgent priorities of the pandemic 
and our business transformation have kept us 
busy, sustainability remains at the top of our 
agenda, and we continue our commitment and 
support for the principles of the united nations 
global compact. we see an acceleration in 
expectations from all stakeholders, not least 
customers, investors and employees. in 2020,  
we updated our sustainability priorities to further  
integrate sustainability into our business strategy,  
and we are accelerating our efforts to 
decarbonise shipping.
the pandemic has only reinforced our role in 
multiplying the benefits of trade and in making 
these accessible to all so that more people 
and businesses can be part of a global, open 
and inclusive trading system. towards this end, 
we work to reduce complexity by digitising 
global trade. as physical lockdowns moved 
more customers online during 2020, we saw 
significant growth in our digital solutions, such 
as maersk spot, the maersk app and twill.
a step-up on decarbonisation
decarbonising logistics is where we can and 
must move the needle the most for sustainable 
development. maersk remains fully committed 
to our ambition of eliminating greenhouse 
gas emissions, as we continue to work towards 
net-zero emissions from our ocean activities 
in 2050; a 60% relative reduction in emissions 
from shipping by 2030 compared to 2008, and 
investigating how we can expand our net-zero 
ambition to cover our full operations and value 
chain across all emission scopes. we recognise 
that climate action is a strategic imperative for  
our company and have redesigned our organisation  
in order to embed the agenda and ensure 
collaboration across our business activities.
in 2020, we began a process to step up our 
efforts on decarbonisation. i strongly believe 
that we, as an industry leader and with the 
resources available to us, have an obligation to 
do all we can to get to a carbon-neutral fleet as 
fast as possible. we will not be using transition 
fuels, but will instead leapfrog directly to net 
zero fuels. the launch of the mærsk mc-kinney 
møller center for zero carbon shipping in 2020, 
made possible by our majority shareholder, the 
a.p. moller foundation, together with a group of 
industry-leading players, is an important step 
in aid of our commitments.
as maersk 's presence grows on land to  
offer integrated logistics solutions, so does our 
responsibility and commitment to help our 
customers decarbonise their global supply 
chains end to end. this is an integral part of our 
strategic promise of serving all our customers' 
transportation and logistics needs, and we will 
engage with customers and industry partners to 
develop standards and solutions to support this 
green transition.
strengthening the foundation
we are strengthening the responsible business 
practices that constitute the foundation of 
our sustainable end-to-end offerings to our 
customers as well as our own operations. 
" i strongly believe that we, as an industry leader 
and with the resources available to us, have an 
obligation to do all we can to get to a carbon 
neutral fleet as fast as possible."
søren skou
ceo of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s
guided by our core company values, our 
commitments to international standards and 
guidelines, and with high expectations from 
customers, investors, regulators, employees 
and other stakeholders, we continue to address  
challenges across our operations and supply 
chains, including key areas such as ship 
recycling and safety.
we have taken on the task of using our 
leverage to drive responsible practices in the 
ship recycling industry. after four years in alang, 
india, we know that this is possible, and with 
still larger vessels in our fleet nearing end of 
life, it is imperative that we create opportunities 
for responsible ship recycling at yards outside 
oecd countries. we are engaging actively 
to find options that ensure enforcement of 
international conventions while also enabling 
global opportunities for responsible ship 
recycling that benefit both shipowners and 
local communities. 
failing safely
the foundation for safety in maersk is to build 
capacity for 'failing safely', acknowledging that 
even while all precautionary measures must 
be applied, some accidents and incidents are 
likely to still occur, but the implications of these 
should be as small as possible.
one of our contractors lost his life while 
working for maersk in 2020. this saddens me 
deeply and emphasises that we need to do 
more to manage our risks and build the capacity 
we need to avoid such a tragic event.
to this end, we centralised the organisation of  
our safety work in 2020. the new organisation 
reinforces that maersk has one shared safety 
strategy which is implemented and enforced 
equally across the company.
the decision is driven by the need to match 
and mirror the integrated company that maersk 
is becoming, and also by the need to establish  
a stronger link between the company’s strategic 
priorities and the implementation level, to 
ensure that we continue to learn and manage 
risks by listening to our frontline employees. 
most importantly to ensure the continuous 
safety and security of our people, but also to 
assure our customers that this is the case  
when they leave their supply chain obligations 
in our hands. 
in simple terms, we will not be satisfied until 
we reach our ambition of eliminating fatalities 
and severe injuries and provide safe and resilient 
products and services to our customers.
social movements a timely reminder
2020 saw the renewed strength of social 
movements to promote race and gender equality. 
our global presence means that we are 
affected by events and movements regardless 
of where they take place. notable examples 
such as black lives matter in the us, which has 
spilled over to many other countries, and new 
waves of #metoo serve as timely reminders 
that we must continue conversations on diversity 
and inclusion and take action where needed. 
maersk is a values-driven company. we treat 
our colleagues and partners with respect and 
dignity, and we do not tolerate discrimination or 
harassment of any kind. it is as simple as that.
in 2020, we have addressed these issues  
in our organisation and clarified how we deal 
with them. we have clear policies in place and  
a whistleblower system with a range of 
reporting options.
for maersk, 2020 was a year of crises in 
global health and economies, lockdowns, 
closed borders and distress – but also of new 
opportunities for our company, accelerated 
progress towards our strategic goals and a 
chance to see what we as leaders and our 
employees are truly capable of.
in the coming year we will be applying our 
capacity to the global distribution of vaccines 
and to keeping supply chains open, and as such 
we will continue to play our part in enabling 
open, inclusive and sustainable trade – together. 
6
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
7
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
introduction
letter from our ceo
introduction
sustainability in our end-to-end offerings
decarbonising logistics
responsible business practices
strategy, governance  
 
 
 
and materiality
society continue to rise. this impacts not only 
maersk, but importantly also our customers, 
who are converting the expectations, risks and 
opportunities for sustainable products in the 
consumer market into requirements for us 
to deliver decarbonised and increasingly also 
end-to-end responsible supply chain solutions. 
almost three out of four of our key clients 
seriously consider sustainability in their supply 
chains, and 90 of our top 200 customers have 
set or are in the process of setting ambitious 
science-based or zero carbon targets.
esg is moving from the niche confines of 
socially responsible investments to a focus 
on financially material impacts that matter to 
mainstream investors. the financial community 
expects companies to demonstrate a credible 
plan that aligns with the paris agreement’s 
1.5-degree target across the full supply chain, 
and to take into account the physical effects 
of climate change and secure a viable business 
for the future. 
furthermore, lawmakers – particularly the 
eu – are moving rapidly on legislation related 
to sustainability, also on issues beyond climate 
change and decarbonisation. for example, the 
eu is enacting the taxonomy on sustainable 
activities, which through demands on the 
financial community will push requirements 
for transparency on esg data across business 
sectors. further initiatives are in the eu's pipeline,  
including increased reporting obligations, 
ensuring sustainability in corporate governance 
and not least, mandatory social and 
environmental due diligence in supply chains.
as a consequence, sustainability is becoming 
not only a values-based responsibility for us but 
also a commercial and strategic imperative for 
a.p. moller - maersk's (maersk) approach to 
sustainability is to take responsibility in line with 
our values and commitments, and to assume a 
leadership position on global issues where we 
have the necessary competencies and leverage 
to make a real difference. we do this through 
our business activities and in line with our 
business strategy, while we listen carefully to 
stakeholders' expectations. 
in 2020, this approach has led us to reassess 
and elevate our ambitions on sustainability, 
which are now further integrated in our global 
integrator strategy and the transformation of 
maersk to one company. 
we see continued strong momentum on 
the sustainability and esg (environment, 
social, governance) agenda in society as 
the expectations and ambition levels of our 
customers, investors, regulators and civil 
maersk as part of our proposition to customers, 
capital providers, employees and regulators, 
and foundational to our broader societal licence 
to operate.
defining a sustainable business strategy
our sustainability efforts have matured over the 
last decade with increasing ambitions matching 
the maturity of the field and expectations of 
our leading customers and key stakeholders. 
the sustainability strategy and ambitions we 
defined in 2017 have served well in creating 
positive impact along multiple dimensions.  
we have made significant progress on the four 
shared value priorities that we identified in 
2017 as those where maersk has the strongest 
potential to contribute towards the sustainable 
development goals, leveraging our business 
expertise and assets: decarbonising logistics, 
multiplying the benefits of trade, contributing 
to halving food loss, and leading change in the 
ship recycling industry. we have progressively 
embedded responsibility for sustainability 
implementation into core functions and 
business areas, and we are now ready to 
integrate our sustainability priorities as an 
embedded part of our business strategy. 
in 2020, we have defined updated sustainability 
priorities for the global integrator strategy: 
enabling sustainable trade by decarbonising 
logistics, sustainability in our end-to-end 
offerings and responsible business practices.
• we will take leadership on decarbonising 
logistics as our single most important strategic  
sustainability priority.
• we will increase our focus on end-to-end 
sustainability in our offerings in response to 
the increased responsibility and opportunity to  
manage supply chain risks for our customers as  
part of our global integrator business strategy.
• we continue to ensure responsible business 
practices across our operations with clear 
governance, accountability, and transparency 
on policies, commitments and performance.
 
our commitments on inclusive trade and 
food loss are fully owned and driven in line of 
business, and remain part of our reporting on 
sustainability as they are integral to our strategy 
and what we do as a business. responsible 
ship recycling is also fully owned in line of 
the business and part of ensuring responsible 
business practices.
 our sustainability governance framework
key programmes
governed by
key external policies and commitments
decarbonising logistics
decarbonisation steerco
executive sponsors: henriette thygesen  
and vincent clerc
the paris agreement
the intergovernmental panel  
on climate change (ipcc)
imo strategy on reduction of ghg emissions from ships
task force on climate-related financial disclosure (tcfd)
health, safety and environment
commit* rule
executive sponsor: morten h. engelstoft
un global compact
imo solas convention
eu sulphur directive 2016/802
unclos
imo ballast water management convention
imo marpol convention annex vi
imo international safety management (ism) code
responsible ship recycling
responsible ship recycling steerco
a.p. moller - maersk responsible  
ship recycling standard
executive sponsor:  
henriette hallberg thygesen
hong kong convention
ilo conventions
un guiding principles on business and human rights
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
employee relations (labour rights)
commit rule
executive sponsor: ulf hahneman
un global compact
ilo conventions
un guiding principles on business and human rights
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
maritime labour convention, 2006 (mlc, 2006)
anti-corruption
commit rule
executive sponsor: caroline pontoppidan
un global compact
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
the us foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act
responsible procurement
commit rule
executive sponsor:  
henriette hallberg thygesen
un global compact
ilo conventions
un guiding principles on business and human rights
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
responsible tax
maersk tax principles
executive sponsor: patrick jany
b team's responsible  
tax principles
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
human rights
a.p. moller - maersk code of conduct
executive sponsor: caroline pontoppidan
un global compact
un guiding principles on business and human rights
oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
diversity and inclusion
diversity & inclusion policy
executive sponsor: ulf hahneman
un global compact
un lgbti standards for business
* commit is maersk’s core governance framework prescribing how we work including the a.p. moller - maersk code of conduct and 23 policies (known as "rules") covering business ethics and governance topics
board of directors  
transformation & innovation committee, audit committee
a.p. moller - maersk executive leadership team
as sustainability becomes a strategic imperative for a.p. moller - maersk, 
we have updated our sustainability priorities and governance to underpin 
a more targeted and integrated approach.
 enabling sustainable trade: sustainability priorities for the global integrator
8
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
9
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategy, governance and materiality
introduction
introduction
responsible trucking
safety
responsible ship recycling
responsible 
procurement
diversity & inclusion 
air emissions
responsible tax
employee relations
ocean health
disaster response
human rights
anti-corruption
responsible procurement 
37 
human rights principles and standards  
related to labour.
responsible ship recycling 
32
human rights principles and standards  
related to labour, in particular the right to  
life and the right to the highest attainable  
standard of health.
employee relations 
36
human rights principles and standards  
related to labour, for example freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, equal 
treatment, child labour, forced labour, working 
hours, compensation, privacy, rest and leisure.
air emissions 
38
the right to the highest  
attainable standard of health.
safety 
30
the right to life and the right to  
the highest attainable standard of health.
human rights in this report
there are many aspects of our business that touch 
on human rights. commitment to human rights 
is expressed in the a.p. moller - maersk code of 
conduct and our human rights due diligence is 
described on the following pages of this report.
diversity and inclusion 
34 
the right to freedom from discrimination  
and the right to family life.
key partnerships
we remain engaged in a wide range of partnerships and are members of different organisations working towards sustainability goals.
daily work, and we incorporate feedback from 
the regular engagements in determining the 
materiality of sustainability issues and setting 
strategic direction for our work. 
in 2020, our engagement with customers 
on sustainability has focused particularly on 
providing transparency on responsible business 
practices and visibility of logistics emissions, 
as well as on sustainability innovation, 
encompassing our currently available and 
future solutions for net zero carbon shipping. 
our engagement with investors, banks and 
insurers on esg/sustainability has likewise 
centred on decarbonisation, but ship recycling, 
air emissions, ocean health and safety are also 
topics important to our large investors. 
we engage actively in many partnerships on 
key sustainability topics (see overview below). 
in addition, we are active members of industry 
organisations such as danish shipping and the 
world shipping council. 
materiality: working on issues that matter 
in line with our practice of reviewing materiality 
annually, we have updated our overview of 
material sustainability issues drawing on the 
outcome of stakeholder engagement and 
research conducted as part of the update of 
strategic sustainability priorities. the research 
has provided insights into expectations, leading 
practices and emerging topics across customers, 
investors, and broader society, and has added 
to our existing knowledge and analyses 
from previous years including an analysis of 
how maersk relates to the un sustainable 
development goals.
revisions and additions to our model
we are simplifying our representation of 
material issues to reflect our new strategic 
approach, highlighting the issues that are 
strategic imperatives and hold the greatest 
potential for value creation: decarbonisation, 
end-to-end sustainability in our offerings, and 
sustainable trade. furthermore, we continue 
to be guided by the perspective of double 
materiality in determining how sustainability 
issues may constitute responsibilities or risks, 
enabling us to understand where maersk has 
a responsibility to mitigate potential negative 
impact on society or the environment and 
where issues may pose significant risk to  
our business. 
our disclosure of sustainability issues as 
potential risks to our business draws on our 
enterprise risk management process, which 
assesses top risks to achieving our business 
plan within a 5-year horizon. the sustainability 
issues that are assessed as among our top 
risks are safety (failure to ensure the safety 
and security of our employees), climate change 
(failure to decarbonise our end-to-end supply 
chain at a speed that matches our customers’ 
and investors’ expectations), and anti-corruption  
(being involved in a large compliance case).
governance structures in place
governance of sustainability in maersk is 
overall anchored with the board of directors 
(transformation and innovation committee) 
and the executive leadership team. under 
their oversight, our sustainability governance 
and integration approach secures executive 
ownership of sustainability and involvement 
in setting sustainability priorities and driving 
implementation, while also embedding 
sustainability in core processes related to strategy,  
performance, planning and risk management.
in 2020, we revised the governance structure 
on decarbonising logistics to support an 
acceleration of our efforts. this includes 
an expanded steering committee with two 
executive members serving as an accountable 
decision-making forum, supported by a broader 
decarbonisation advisory group, preparing work 
plans and strategies and ensuring alignment 
across the company. the advisory group 
has defined a set of workstreams covering 
commercialisation, vessel design, energy 
efficiency, fleet and network, retrofitting, new 
fuels, sourcing and framework conditions.
stakeholder engagement
five stakeholder groups are prioritised 
for sustainability strategy, reporting and 
engagement: customers, employees, investors, 
authorities and ngos/thought leaders. issue 
owners and leaders across maersk engage with 
representatives of these groups as part of their 
changes to reporting as a result of strategy and materiality review
our commitments to open, inclusive and sustainable trade are owned in 
line of business and delivered in particular through strategic investments in 
digitising global trade. we continue to report on our 2025 commitments as 
well as on key societal trends in global trade.
air emissions continue to be a material responsibility topic, while the potential 
financial risk impact of imo 2020 (lack of enforcement of the cap on sulphur 
in fuel oil) as reported on in previous years is reduced.
supply chain sustainability risk is becoming more strategically relevant for 
us in our customer offerings. we report on it in the chapter on end-to-end 
sustainability in our offerings. 
we no longer report on food loss as a separate disclosure topic but incorporate 
highlights in this year’s report as part of the chapter on sustainable trade.
responsible ship recycling continues to be a material responsibility topic 
which we report on in the responsible business practices section.
we no longer report on human rights as a separate issue, but have integrated 
human rights commitments and frameworks such as the un guiding principles  
on human rights and business into our governance approach and issue 
management processes. see overview to the right.
material sustainability issues 2020
based on research, stakeholder dialogue and management prioritisation, we determine how sustainability issues are material to maersk by applying 
criteria and filters of risk, responsibility and strategic opportunity assessment. the most material issues are outlined below and reported on in relevant 
sections of this report.
sustainable and 
inclusive trade
climate change / 
decarbonising logistics
 end-to-end responsibility  
in supply chains
10
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
11
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
introduction
introduction
strategy, governance and materiality
  strategic  
sustainability  
   priorities
 enabling  
 
 
sustainable trade
wherever you live, chances are that your living 
conditions are closely tied to how much and 
how well your country trades. since 1980, 
bangladesh has seen a four-fold increase in 
exports with poverty rates declining from 45% 
to less than 15% today1. in south korea, another 
trading nation, an average employee generates 
13 times more wealth in a day than she did fifty 
years ago2. in turkey, the typical consumer can 
attribute a third of their real income to lower 
prices enabled by trade3.
lessons from a pandemic
during 2020, we saw how fragile this progress 
can be – a real-time demonstration of what 
can happen when economies shut down. 
the international labour organization has 
estimated that as a result of the pandemic, 
global labour incomes have declined by more 
than 10% in 2020, corresponding to hundreds 
of millions of jobs4. the economic hardships 
caused by covid-19 are not equally distributed, 
and inequalities within and among countries 
are likely to widen. according to the world bank, 
during the pandemic the number of people 
living in extreme poverty (less than usd 1.90 
a day) has gone up for the first time in twenty 
years and there is a real risk that we will not 
reach the un sustainable development goal of 
eradicating extreme poverty by 20305.
at the same time, 2020 also demonstrated 
the power of open trade and well-designed 
logistics. the pandemic has been a demand-
side crisis, but bar the initial shut-down in china, 
and initial shortages of face masks, it has not 
been a supply-side crisis. logistics supply chains 
have kept moving throughout the pandemic. 
three factors in particular explain why this 
has been the case. first, the extraordinary 
efforts of those on the frontline that make 
trade move: seafarers, dockworkers, warehouse 
staff, truck drivers and many more. throughout 
the crisis, they have kept supply chains moving. 
for our seafarers and their families this has 
come at great personal sacrifice (see p. 26). 
second, the investments we have made 
into operational excellence, expansion of our 
portfolio of services and new digital solutions 
over the past years have made supply chains 
much more resilient. comparing 2020 to 2019, 
the maersk app nearly doubled the number 
of business transactions – from an average of 
about 21,400 per week in 2019 to an average 
of about 42,600 per week in 2020. similarly, 
business transactions on maersk.com – one of 
the world’s largest b2b-sites – are up by 18% 
year on year. as the pandemic disrupted the 
global economy, our strategic focus on building 
end-to-end supply chain visibility helped our 
customers slow down, speed up and redirect 
supply as shut-downs rolled through global 
markets. third, governments have on the whole 
consciously worked to keep trade open in order 
to preserve jobs and economic activity, enabling 
logistics companies to do their job. 
using trade to drive recovery 
the learnings that helped us during the crisis 
will also be essential for the rebuild that lies 
ahead. open, inclusive and sustainable trade 
should be at the centre of this effort.
much attention has been focused on the 
us-china trade war, but trade protectionism has 
been on the rise among all the g20 economies 
since the 2009 global financial crisis, and 
us and china account for no more than a 
quarter of protectionist measures since 2017. 
this we can no longer afford. the removal 
1 http://povertydata.worldbank.org/poverty/country/bgd
2 https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/labor-productivity-per-hour-pennworldtable
3 https://www.nber.org/papers/w20331.pdf p. 39
4 https://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/newsroom/news/wcms_755875/lang--en/index.htm
5 https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2020/10/07/covid-19-to-add-as-many-as-150-million-extreme-poor-by-2021
as the global integrator of container logistics, we work 
to ensure that trade is open, inclusive and sustainable. 
sustainable trade, decarbonisation and 
sustainability in our end-to-end offerings 
are strategic imperatives to our business. 
live demonstration of  
the power of trade
it is tempting to think that in an uncertain 
world, decoupling supply chains and 
increasing protectionism and self-
sufficiency is the way to go. 2020 has 
demonstrated just how flawed this 
strategy is. 
it is because of open supply chains, 
digital connectivity and rules-based 
trade that countries and businesses have 
been able to maintain essential services 
and supplies, even as half the global 
population went into lockdown. 
but while global supply chains are 
essential during the crisis and for the 
recovery, going forward it will not be 
business as usual. the increased need 
for resilience experienced during the 
pandemic adds to an already existing 
set of factors, including technological 
innovations and geopolitics that are 
transforming supply chains. we expect 
that resilience, redundancy and scalability 
will play a bigger role for our customers, 
with more focus on the geographic 
diversity and resilience of suppliers, 
stress-testing supply chain networks, and 
'just-in-case' inventory management.
of protectionist measures can offer a multi-
billion-dollar stimulus to the global economy 
without burdening taxpayers and public finances.
the pandemic has been particularly hard 
on small and medium-sized businesses that 
account for two-thirds of all jobs globally. 
boosting their access to trade is critical for an 
inclusive recovery. furthermore, helping smes 
grow and diversify their export markets will 
make them and the millions who depend on 
them more resilient to future crises.
12
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
13
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
enabling sustainable trade
strategic sustainability priorities
strategic sustainability priorities
delivering on our commitments
through twill, our digital logistics offering  
for small and medium-sized customers, 
and maersk growth, a.p. moller - maersk’s 
(maersk) corporate venture arm, we pursue 
our commitment to connecting 100,000 
smes, including women-operated business, 
to international trade by 2025. as part of this 
work, we recognise that trade finance is one of 
the key barriers to trade for small businesses, 
and for this reason we have invested in modifi, 
which specialises in making trade finance 
accessible to small companies. in 2020, we 
integrated modifi’s offering into twill.
women-owned businesses and women 
entrepreneurs hold particular promise in making  
trade work better for inclusive growth. in 2020,  
we continued our collaboration with the shetrades  
initiative of the international trade centre, with 
the aim of connecting more women to trade.
as shippers, logistics providers, customs 
officers and many more supply chain actors 
have been holed up at home around the world, 
digital platforms have enabled them to keep 
operations moving. maersk is committed to 
helping connect 50% of global containerised 
trade to digital solutions by 2025. the potential  
impact of reaching this target was demonstrated  
in an analysis of our terminal in mumbai in india  
concluded in 2019. this showed that digitising 
trade processes can help reduce costs for 
exporters and importers by up to usd 260 
million annually in mumbai alone, equal to 
approximately 15% of total costs.
our aim is to help realise this potential on  
a global scale. in 2019, maersk entered into an 
innovative partnership with the government of 
germany and the united nations conference  
our commitments on sustainable trade
commitments
progress
connect 50% of global containerised 
trade to digital solutions that reduce 
supply chain barriers by 2025
tradelens has integrated with over 220 organisations, including data from more than ten ocean carriers and more than  
600 ports and terminals, resulting in coverage of nearly half of the world's ocean container cargo. integrations of cma 
cgm and msc owned terminals is being planned.
tradelens involvement in a multi-stakeholder project to automate advance sea cargo data for developing countries will  
start with pilots in cambodia and sri lanka.
help connect 100,000 small and 
medium-sized enterprises (smes), 
including women-operated businesses, 
to international trade by 2025.6
• twill, our digital shipping platform focused on smes, counted over 4,000 active customers in 2020.
• almost 1.700 participants joined twill's webinars and coaching programmes.
• by the end of 2020, we had invested in 21 start-ups enabling trade for smes. these start-ups reach more than 15,000 
customers and help them connect to global trade.
contribute to trade facilitation reforms  
in 30 developing countries by 2025.
through our participation in the global alliance for trade facilitation, we provide knowledge and data to enable reforms  
in developing countries. 
by the end of 2020, we had contributed to reforms in ten countries. action was delayed on a number of projects, 
predominantly due to covid-19.
contribute to halving food loss in 
logistics in support of sustainable 
development and growth of our cold 
chain business
in 2020 our cold chain logistics business expanded to cover several hundred customers across nearly 50 countries 
globally. we opened one new cold chain facility and are progressing three construction/expansion projects in our network 
of cold storage warehouses. the fundamental challenge during the covid-19 pandemic in 2020 has been to help ensure 
the stability of global food supply.
we did not make progress in 2020 on the development of a metrics framework and broader partnerships to guide and 
document our impact on food loss in the supply chain.
enable them to change their operations to increase 
their competitiveness in international trade. 
this is the case for rocio aslida norzagaray 
sandoval, co-owner and ceo of dios cacao in 
mexico, producing and selling gourmet chocolate 
products, promoting the consumption of mexican 
cocoa and on a mission to improve crops and 
support the social fabric of communities in their 
supply chain. 
rocio sandoval came into the coaching 
programme with a desire to expand dios cacao's 
market beyond mexico, but declaring that she did 
not know where to start and would like help to 
understand what the company’s target audience 
and pricing strategy might be when trying to expand. 
at the end of the eight weeks, rocio and her  
twill coach, maria fernanda muniz tapia, agreed 
that good knowledge about the export process in 
mexico had been achieved and a pricing strategy 
established. furthermore, rocio and maria had 
worked on dios cacao’s supply chain and designed 
an export plan based on actual quotes and risks. 
“thank you for the fortune of being part of this 
programme. i now feel more capable in dealing 
with future challenges, “ rocio sandoval wrote to 
twill at the end of the programme. 
the twill employees working as coaches 
were equally enthusiastic about taking part in 
the project. a full 95% reported that they had 
increased their understanding of smes and 
their pain points, while 86% increased their 
understanding of developing markets, and  
100% felt that they had improved their 
interpersonal skills.
twill employees coach women entrepreneurs
as part of twill’s collaboration with itc shetrades, 
we organise coaching programmes between twill  
employees and representatives of smes. in 2020,  
a pilot programme of four weeks and a subsequent 
eight week-long programme were established to 
support a total of 29 women entrepreneurs from 
nigeria, india, mexico and kenya. the business 
owners were allocated a twill coach, and the pairs 
worked on predefined challenges experienced 
by the business and communicated in advance. 
these were not only logistics challenges, but also 
addressed questions related to sales, e-commerce, 
hr and marketing. 
19 of the 25 participants in the eight week 
programme took part in a follow-up, and a full 
94% of these reported that the programme would 
50%
maersk is committed to 
helping connect
of global containerised  
   trade to digital solutions  
 by 2025 
on trade and development (unctad). the aim  
of the collaboration is to develop asyhub, 
a digital hub that will allow customs 
administrations globally to exchange digital 
shipping information with platforms such as 
tradelens, an open and neutral supply chain 
platform developed by maersk and ibm. the 
asyhub solution will enable customs to 
have greater visibility of goods entering and 
leaving their countries, while drastically cutting 
down on the time and cost for importers and 
exporters to clear their goods. development of 
the solution was completed in 2020 and it will 
be tested by customs authorities in cambodia 
and sri lanka during 2021.
the link between trade and climate change
we recognise that concerns over the 
sustainability of global consumption patterns 
remain and that in the light of the pandemic, 
this debate has come to include the added 
dilemma of jobs and livelihoods lost in 
production countries in particular. 
our premise is that fighting climate change 
should not be at the expense of trade, because 
this will lead to another set of sustainability 
challenges: lack of decent work, increases in 
poverty, hunger, lower availability of funds 
to invest in sustainable transformation and 
new infrastructure and more. as the past year 
has shown us, keeping trade up and running 
positively impacts the chances of sustainability 
staying on the global agenda. 
maersk is best positioned to impact two 
aspects of making trade and consumption  
more sustainable: by ensuring access to trade 
by removing friction in trade as explained 
above, and decarbonising logistics, described in  
detail on pages 16-22, which will result in the 
decoupling of greenhouse gas emissions during 
transportation from economic growth.
decarbonising logistics is only one part of the 
sustainability challenge related to consumption, 
but it is the one which we are able to impact 
directly, as opposed to consumption of natural 
resources, build-up of non-recyclable waste, 
etc., which are issues that must first be dealt 
with in the systems where they occur. 
in simple terms, we are working to decarbonise  
how container cargo is moved around the world.  
the sustainability of what is inside the container  
is not within our direct sphere of influence, and 
must as a starting point be dealt with by the 
cargo owners.
minimising food loss with customers
we are helping to halve food loss during 
transportation as an integrated part of our cold  
chain logistics business, focusing on developing  
and scaling solutions to connect and integrate 
our customers' cold chains. substantial extra 
efforts were required during 2020 to minimise 
disruptions brought on by covid-19 and ensure 
all elements across the cold chains including 
cold stores and trucking could continue to run 
smoothly, and ensure the stability of global 
food supply. 
during 2020, the cold chain logistics area 
expanded and now serves several hundred 
customers across nearly 50 countries globally. 
we opened one new cold chain facility and are 
progressing on three construction or expansion 
projects to develop our network of cold storage 
warehouses. 
we work with customers to test solutions 
that target produce at the origin, working from 
harvest to container station and beyond to 
ensure that the product is treated in the best 
possible way to sustain quality and secure as 
little food loss as possible. one such example 
is how we have worked with citrus growers 
in morocco, where preservation of food 
quality in citrus fruit during transportation 
was challenging. our work included quality-
preserving processes related to packing, 
handling and temperature control in the 
cold chain resulting in less food loss, as well 
as working with customs to ensure faster 
processing, which equals less waste and better 
prices for the farmers. we piloted this project in 
2019, and in 2020 we have worked to scale it up 
to cover more farmers and more destinations. 
maersk also contributes to reducing 
food loss both during transportation and at 
supermarket and consumer level through 
investments made by our venture arm, maersk 
growth. these include investments in for 
example fliit, a germany-based digital freight 
forwarder specializing in food logistics, ripe.io 
– a platform leveraging blockchain technology 
and ai to provide data insights along the food  
supply chain, and spoiler alert, a company 
building a marketplace for discounted perishables. 
our focus during 2020 has been on efforts 
to create change on the ground, and the 
development of a metrics framework and 
broader partnerships to guide and document 
our impact on food loss in the supply chain 
remains a work-in-progress. 
"because of flexible, connected  
supply chains and rules-based  
global trade, countries and 
businesses have been able to 
maintain essential services and 
supplies, even as societies across 
the globe went into lockdown."
søren skou,  
ceo, a.p. møller - mærsk a/s
6  we no longer report on a previous target on sme share of maersk revenue because we have come to understand that their overall share of maersk revenue does not contribute to providing meaningful measures of the 
impact on our work.
14
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
15
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategic sustainability priorities
strategic sustainability priorities
enabling sustainable trade
net zero co2
net zero co2
net zero co2
net zero co2
60%
 decarbonising  
        logistics
two years after setting our net zero ambition  
in december 2018, we have come further than we 
imagined possible at that time. 
in 2018, a 2050 net zero ambition for shipping  
was a moonshot goal. today, we see it as a challenging  
target, but clearly possible to reach. customers, 
investors and authorities are accelerating their 
ambitions, and their expectations are rising fast for 
a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) and our industry to 
deliver more solutions, more visibility and more help 
in decarbonising supply chains.
decarbonisation can make or break us
in 2020, we conducted a strategic review of global 
climate scenarios and transition pathways (see box  
on page 21). the conclusion was that climate action  
is a strategic imperative for all companies, and our  
company in particular, as we – due to our size and  
industry reach – have the opportunity to be a driving  
force in decarbonising shipping and logistics. we 
are both able and willing to take that role upon us. 
there are specific trends in our stakeholder 
environment that underscore the need for urgent  
action on decarbonisation. first, a logistics provider  
without an ambitious plan for decarbonisation risks  
becoming irrelevant in the market, because it would 
become increasingly difficult for customers to embed  
services offered into their product offerings. this 
means that our company cannot be behind the curve 
on the carbon journey.
second, political action is gradually but continuously  
beginning to reflect the reality of climate change. 
spurred on by science, the evident rise in the number  
of extreme weather events, as well as pressure from  
a broad range of stakeholders, lawmakers are 
working on taxation or other pricing mechanisms  
as well as disclosure requirements related to co2 
emissions, to incentivise transformation in all parts 
of society. these actions both emphasise and 
potentially mitigate the financial risks of climate 
change to companies, asset owners and societies. 
for example, while maersk supports the introduction  
of uniform pricing regimes for co2, the potential 
added cost from a regulatory instrument such as a 
carbon tax might end up being calculated in billions 
of dollars for maersk alone, if we do not 
decarbonise our operations.
decarbonisation is a strategic imperative 
for our industry and our company. we are 
intensifying our efforts to achieve net zero 
emissions and support our customers to 
decarbonise their supply chains. 
our commitments on decarbonisation
continued progress on efficiency
by end 2020, we had achieved 46.3% 
reduction in emissions compared  
to 2008, with 2.5% of that achieved  
in 2020 alone.
future fuels and vessels
our research shows that net zero 
technologies are available, and we will  
not use transition fuels (such as lng)  
but leapfrog to fully net zero fuels.
net zero 
co2 emissions
by 2050, have net zero co2 emissions 
from our own ocean operations.
2030
60% relative co2 reduction  
from shipping
by 2030, deliver 60% relative reduction 
in co2 emissions compared to 2008 levels.
net zero vessels  
in operation
by 2030, have commercially viable, 
net zero vessels operating in our fleet.
pathways to 2050
we are working with customers,  
partners and regulators to build the market, 
fuel supply chains and policy frameworks  
to support net zero emissions shipping
2050
steps towards decarbonisation
16
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
17
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
decarbonising logistics
strategic sustainability priorities
strategic sustainability priorities
fuel
key advantages
key limitations/risks
biodiesel
• can be used as drop-in fuel in existing  
vessels and engines
• limited availability of biomass feedstock a challenge  
to scalability
• price pressure due to high demand from competing 
industries 
methanol  
(bio-methanol and e-methanol)
• already in operation as marine fuel
• engine is available
• liquid at normal conditions,  
well-known handling
• bio-methanol: production at scale is challenged by 
uncertainty over availability of biomass
• e-methanol: availability of biogenic co2 source  
at production site, cost and maturity of  
electrolyser technology
lignin fuels 
a new biofuel based on biomass 
residue (lignin) and alcohols 
(methanol or ethanol)
• lignin fuels are potentially the most  
price-competitive net zero fuel with the 
lowest price estimate almost on a par  
with fossil fuels
• in development stage, production needs to be scaled up  
to create a new value chain and infrastructure for supply
• engine requirements would be the same as for methanol, 
but additional handling of contaminants may be required
ammonia 
(green ammonia)
• fully zero emissions fuel
• can be produced at scale from renewable 
electricity alone
• safety and toxicity challenges
• infrastructure challenges at ports
• future cost depends on cost of renewable electricity and 
cost/maturity of electrolyser technology
four priority fuels for net zero emissions shipping
maersk has a history of pioneering solutions 
and being ahead of our customers' demand. 
we were first to create a global network driving 
down the cost of transporting goods. we are 
the frontrunners in digitising the shipping and 
logistics industry with blockchain and web-
based solutions.
our decarbonisation efforts have matured 
over the past decade with increasing ambitions 
matching the maturity of the field and the 
expectations of our leading customers. we 
now want to reinforce our position, and we see 
this as an expression of our obligation – as an 
industry leader and with the resources available 
to us – to do all we can to get to a carbon-
neutral fleet as fast as possible and to help 
our customers decarbonise their global supply 
chains end to end. 
today, 90 of our top 200 customers have 
set or are in the process of setting ambitious 
science-based or zero carbon targets. we have 
since 2018 been committed to set a science- 
based target, and we are actively engaging 
with the science-based target initiative on 
developing a methodology for shipping. once 
this work is finalised, expected in the first 
half of 2021, we want to relate our emission 
reduction targets to this new calculation 
method, and measure our performance by  
the same yardstick as our customers do. 
intensifying our efforts
to be true to our history and strategic promise, 
we are in the process of reviewing our 
decarbonisation ambitions, and investigating 
where we can raise the bar. to drive this 
and coordinate all related processes, a new 
decarbonisation function was launched in  
january 2021, tasked with ensuring collaboration  
across commercial, operational, technological, 
and corporate entities. with the new setup, 
decarbonisation will be an even stronger 
strategic priority across the business. the new 
team, counting more than 50 people, will assist, 
inspire, set the direction and transition pace and 
ensure that decarbonisation is a business priority 
embedded across the entire company.
in pursuit of the decarbonisation targets set 
in 2018, we continue to make progress along 
the strategic pathways of building markets, 
developing technologies and enabling policies.
a market for net zero emissions shipping
building on the increased momentum from 
our customers, in 2020 we implemented a new 
commercial strategy on sustainability aiming 
to respond to and aid customers on their 
decarbonisation journey, however far they  
have come.
one key feature in this is the maersk eco 
delivery product. launched in 2019, it remains 
one of only a few options for carbon-neutral 
emissions shipping on the global market so far. 
maersk eco delivery uses externally certified 
biodiesel in the form of used cooking oil to 
power vessels in our network. the co2 savings 
generated from this are used to neutralise 
emissions related to transport of specific cargo 
by customers. 
in 2020, customer uptake of maersk eco 
delivery shipping exceeded our expectations.  
so far, approximately ten major customers have  
chosen to purchase this carbon-neutral emissions  
launched in 2019, maersk eco 
delivery remains one of only a few 
options for carbon-neutral emissions 
shipping on the global market so far. 
"our conversations with 
customers are increasingly 
focused on supporting their 
ambitions to decarbonise 
their supply chains, and 
ensuring flexible and resilient 
transport solutions."
vincent clerc
executive vice president  
and ceo ocean and logistics,  
a.p. møller - mærsk a/s
the future of fuels
over the past two years, we have conducted an 
extensive analysis of the available technology 
and fuel options for net zero carbon operations.  
based on this work, we have concluded that 
there are technologies that are mature enough 
for us to participate in their development to scale 
by acting as an ambitious customer. 
a broad range of technologies were 
evaluated and the four primary pathways we 
are now pursuing can be seen in the table 
above. as part of this process, we also de-
selected a number of potential technologies. 
for example, bio-methane and liquified natural 
gas, fuel cells, nuclear and onboard carbon 
capture due to concerns related to one or 
more of the steps in the fuel transformation 
supply chain (see illustration on the next page). 
for bio-methane and liquified natural gas, for 
example, we are very concerned with levels 
of methane emissions, and the risk of tying 
investments to marginal co2 reductions rather 
than transformation to real net zero-emissions 
solutions. fuel cells were put on hold because 
they are not ready to be produced efficiently at 
scale and cost is still high, but we monitor this 
technology closely. 
our analysis shows that the technologies 
are available. as a result, and in response 
to the increased urgency of delivering on 
decarbonisation, we believe that the right thing 
to do is to leapfrog to pure net zero vessel  
technology without any transitional technologies.
barriers to progress
as shown in the graphic on the next page, fuel 
transformation involves the entire supply chain, 
and holds barriers to progress which we are 
working to overcome: 
• scaling fuel production and  
associated technology  
the main limitation to developing net zero  
emission vessels is availability of new fuels 
at scale. we are engaged in several fuel 
manufacturing projects for both methanol 
and ammonia, just as our participation in 
the leo coalition continues, where we in 
collaboration with partners incl. customers 
and researchers work on the lignin fuel 
option in the table above. in combination, 
these projects will deliver substantially 
towards the power needs of our entire fleet, 
albeit price premiums may remain a barrier 
to uptake. the first green fuel projects will  
command premiums, but technology maturity  
will improve and production costs are expected 
to decrease once production is scaled.
• lack of fuel infrastructure  
today, there is very limited infrastructure in 
any port to handle net zero emission fuels. 
we will collaborate with fuel suppliers to 
develop a fuelling network that serves  
our needs. 
• safety-related issues  
for methanol and ethanol, there are issues 
related to flammability that will have to be 
resolved. there are already some operational 
experience available for methanol as a 
shipping fuel. for ammonia, the main issue 
is toxicity, and safe solutions will have to be 
developed before it can be used as marine 
fuel. however, ammonia is today handled 
commercially in many other applications, 
and solutions for its safe use as marine fuel 
should be possible. much work remains to be 
done in this area, and it is one of the areas 
that the mærsk mc-kinney møller center for 
zero carbon shipping will investigate (see 
box on the next page).
• impact on company profitability 
leadership on the decarbonisation agenda 
comes with a near-certain increase in costs 
but also, we believe, with a potential for 
competitive advantage that far outweighs 
the costs and potential risks.
we believe that the right thing to do is to 
leapfrog to pure net zero vessel technology 
without any transitional technologies.
7 energy transitions commission, making mission possible – delivering a net-zero economy, september 2020
transport solution, and we expect this number 
to increase. we are also in conversation with 
some customers on the possibility of converting 
all their shipments to the maersk eco delivery 
product. while this is very promising, it represents  
a small share of the total amount of containers 
transported by maersk, and we need much more  
customer demand to scale net zero emissions 
offerings and enable a transition to full 
decarbonisation. 
most importantly, however, we are learning 
that the commoditised freight market is open 
for price differentiation related to sustainability. 
driven by the end-consumers' increased 
willingness to pay for sustainability, and 
growing climate urgency, this represents a solid 
contribution to the development of a business 
model for decarbonised logistics and transport, 
lowering the risk we take on when investing in 
the development of decarbonised logistics and 
transport services (shipping, rail, road, air). 
reflecting this, we have developed a multi-
tier value proposition for sustainable logistics, 
allowing us to respond to customer needs 
aligned with their maturity and ambition level  
for carbon reductions. we continue to build ties  
and partnerships with the group of customers 
who match or exceed our ambitions on 
decarbonisation, and the solutions we 
co-develop with them are crucial levers in 
showcasing and shaping the broader market  
of the future.
a very relevant aspect related to the value 
proposition of net zero emissions logistics is 
understanding where the cost of transition will 
be felt. analysis from the energy transitions 
commission7 shows that for most product 
categories, price increases for final consumers 
will be negligible, even though the intermediate 
costs are higher. see graphic below.
a pair of running shoes  
for $100 would increase by
+ $0.06
[+0.06%]
a computer for $800  
would increase by
+ $0.60
[+0.08%]
1 banana for $0.25 
would increase by
+ $0.01
[+5%]
 how decarbonisation affects consumer prices
20% increase in shipping rate  
(equivalent to +100% increased fuel costs)
source: calculations by maersk
18
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
19
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategic sustainability priorities
decarbonising logistics
strategic sustainability priorities
5
0
10
15
20
25
2008
2020
2030
eeoi gco2 pr ton-nm
year
2030
2008
2020
year
% of 2008
20
0
40
60
80
100
46.3%
reduction of relative co₂ 
emissions, 2008-2020
12.2
eeoi (gco2/ton-nm), 2020
engine
fuel system
port
production
feedstock
transport
bunkering
emissions
enough feedstock?
cheap enough?
sustainable?
how to transport 
and store?
can it be produced 
efficiently?
safety 
considerations?
what type of 
engine is needed?
what changes 
are needed to the 
fuel system?
air 
emissions?
progress and increased disclosure  
on co2 efficiency
our target is to deliver 60% relative co2 
reduction by 2030 (compared to 2008 
baseline). by the end of 2020, we had reduced 
emissions by 46.3%. we are from 2020 using 
an improved methodology to calculate relative 
reductions, which enhances the accuracy8. 
we are also from 2020 disclosing our progress 
on co2 efficiency in both actual efficiency 
(measured in eeoi, gco2/ton-nm) as well as 
relative to our baseline year 2008. the graphs 
above show performance according to both the 
old calculation, used in our 2019 sustainability 
report, and the improved calculation which we 
will use going forward. 
towards 60% co₂ emissions reduction
transformation needs to happen across the entire fuel supply chain
the mærsk mc-kinney møller 
center for zero carbon shipping
the mærsk mc-kinney møller center for 
zero carbon shipping is an independent, 
non-profit, leading-edge research and 
development centre launched in june 
2020. mobilising around 100 of the best 
minds from industry, academia, energy, 
fuel and ship technology, regulatory 
affairs and finance, the centre will work 
to create overviews of decarbonisation 
pathways, accelerate the development 
of selected decarbonising energies and 
powering technologies as well as support 
the establishment of regulatory, financial 
and commercial means to enable and 
drive the transformation.
the centre is made possible by a 
start-up donation of dkk 400m by the 
a.p. moller foundation. the founding 
partners are american bureau of shipping, 
a.p. moller - maersk, cargill, man energy 
solutions, mitsubishi heavy industries, 
nyk lines and siemens, and many more 
partners are expected to join.
the need for broad-based action 
the final piece of our decarbonisation strategy 
relates to the policy frameworks established 
to further this process. policies must not 
only secure that low performers are held 
accountable, but also that the first movers are 
truly rewarded for the risks taken on behalf of 
the whole industry. 
with very few exceptions, the political and 
legislative debate is currently not moving 
fast enough to fulfil its role. the international 
maritime organization (imo) must start to 
address concrete long-term measures in order 
to close the competitiveness gap between 
fossil and renewable fuels. global measures 
to accelerate the transition and create a more 
level playing field are essential, and for this 
reason the limited outcome of the imo meeting 
in 2020 was disappointing. we also advocate 
that lawmakers build incentive structures that 
reward first movers and remove a share of the 
financial risk related to decarbonisation. there 
is a very real danger that regulators are out of 
sync with the progress and development pushed 
by industry, which would be to no one’s benefit. 
at regional level, there is no doubt that shipping  
will be part of the eu emissions trading system, 
which is the world's biggest scheme for trading 
greenhouse gas emissions allowances, also 
known as co2 credits. however, this needs 
to be done with the objective of actually 
lowering shipping emissions and with a view 
to supporting an international greenhouse 
gas reduction agreement. moreover, the many 
related eu initiatives must also fit into a puzzle 
whereby greenhouse gas emissions overall are  
lowered while still supporting modal shift of cargo  
to sea, which will remain the most sustainable  
way of transporting large quantities of cargo. 
the transition will not happen without strong 
regulatory frameworks. imo member states 
have a fundamental role in securing progress. 
these processes take time, but there is real 
benefit to having a global solution which is 
enforceable and protects first-movers. 
in parallel, private action and advocacy 
initiatives should also continue. we are very 
proud to have been part of the recent launch 
of the mærsk mc-kinney møller center for zero 
carbon shipping (see box). this independent 
centre will engage scientists from all over the 
world in trying to find solutions on fuels for 
shipping. additionally, we have joined hands 
with Ørsted, the largest energy company in 
denmark, and other leading danish companies 
in establishing a project to develop a new 
hydrogen plant, which can be part of the solution  
for creating e-fuels in the future. we have also 
received external funding to further intensify 
our research and development of different 
types of lignin-alcohol fuels. we continue to 
engage actively in the getting to zero coalition, 
and beyond our own sector we have joined 
with a group of other leadership companies in 
the transform to net zero initiative, launched 
in july 2020, which aims to lead by example, 
developing guidance and pilot projects to enable 
all businesses to achieve net zero emissions.
eeoi, actual  
(old calculation)
eeoi, relative – 2008 
index (old calculation)
eeoi, actual  
(new calculation as 
per mepc circ 684)
eeoi, relative – 2008 index  
(new calculation as per  
mepc circ 684)
2030 target pathway, 
actual eeoi
2030 target  
pathway, relative 
eeoi, 2008 index
actual energy efficiency
relative energy efficiency
“we are looking for more robust and comparable information on how companies 
are realigning their business strategies and operations with the goals of the paris 
agreement and a net zero emissions future. we need to be certain that a company 
has charted a credible and comprehensive course to decarbonisation, taking into  
account added investments and costs, just as we need to know that the 
transformation is anchored at the highest leadership level.”
claus wiinblad
senior vice president, atp
climate-related risks and 
opportunities to our business
policies and changed consumption patterns. and 
a 2.0- degree pathway will entail ongoing material 
risk of accelerated climate change (tipping points) 
and abrupt policy changes in response. 
currently, the planet remains on an 
unsustainable warming pathway above 2.0 degrees 
and material physical climate change is likely 
regardless of remedial actions taken, impacting 
customer supply chains and potentially maersk's 
ability to deliver a reliable product.
these scenarios confirm to us the urgency 
of climate action to mitigate the risks to our 
own business and stay relevant in the market by 
supporting our customers to decarbonise their 
supply chains. climate change, more specifically 
the risk of not decarbonising our end-to-end 
supply chain at a speed that matches our 
customers’ and investors’ expectations, was in 
2020 confirmed by our executive leadership as 
one of the top enterprise risks to maersk.
tcfd disclosure 
it is a cornerstone of our decarbonisation ambition 
to provide transparency to capital markets on 
greenhouse gas emissions across all scopes, our 
transition pathways, and climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
the key framework which guides our reporting is 
the tcfd (task force on climate-related financial 
disclosures) framework which is also incorporated 
into cdp, a platform to which we have reported 
since 2010, and into new benchmarks such as the 
climate action 100+ net zero company benchmark 
launching in early 2021.
tcfd recommends that companies report 
on governance, strategy, risk management, and 
targets and metrics related to material climate-
related risks and opportunities. to understand our 
governance of climate change work please refer to 
page 10 in this report. 
to learn about our strategy as well as metrics 
and targets for decarbonisation, please read this 
chapter of the report. 
for an overview of tcfd reporting, please see 
our esg data table, which can be downloaded from 
our investor relations website. 
in 2020, we conducted a strategic review to 
analyse the likelihood and implications of different 
pathways for global warming, and how these might 
impact our business in terms of both physical and 
transition risks. 
limiting warming to 2.0 degrees appears to be 
the most plausible outcome. reaching this goal 
will require significant policy measures and per 
capita emissions below the lowest level recorded 
since records began in 1960. 
the physical effects of climate change are 
already evident in the form of heat and water 
stress, precipitation, storms, and rising sea levels. 
these effects will intensify regardless of collective 
action taken today to decarbonise.
attaining a 2.0-degree pathway will not 
eliminate physical climate change risk for our 
customers and our business operations. moreover, 
the transition to a 2.0-degree pathway will likely be 
a source of major disruption (transition risk) in and 
of itself because of the accompanying government 
8  the indicator underlying our relative co2 reduction target is eeoi, energy efficiency operational indicator, calculated as g co2/(ton x nm). from 2020, we are disclosing performance in actual numbers in addition to  
the progress relative to the index year 2008. our new, improved methodology, enables us to cleanse ballast water and fuel stock weights from the cargo weight to make the calculation of eeoi fully in line with the imo's 
marine environment protection committee's (mepc) regulations. this was previously not possible, as we lacked the data and method to remove it from the historical data.
comparing the new calculations with the 
old shows that while the number for actual 
efficiency in gco2/ton-nm is now higher than 
before, this also corresponds to a higher 
reduction compared to the baseline year of 
2008. using the old methodology, we have 
reduced emissions by 42.7% since 2008. 
eeoi: energy efficiency operational indicator. see further explanation in footnote below.
20
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
21
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategic sustainability priorities
strategic sustainability priorities
decarbonising logistics
net zero co2
net zero co2
maersk’s 
c0₂ footprint 
             2020
emissions coming from 
our financially controlled 
operations.
96% of our scope 1 emissions 
come from bunker fuel.
33,902 (1,000 tonnes co2 eq)
scope 1:
own operations
64%
emissions from the generation 
of purchased electricity.
maersk has partial responsibility 
related to how much electricity 
we use.
305 (1,000 tonnes co2 eq)
scope 2:
purchased electricity
(location-based)
<1%
36%
emissions created in the value-chain as result of 
maersk's business activities, including emissions from 
cargo transported under vessel sharing agreements.
19,017 (1,000 tonnes co2 eq)
this comprises five material categories 
(all numbers below in 1,000 tonnes co2 eq): 
•   upstream transportation and distribution: 13,322
•   purchased goods and services: 2,750
•   use of sold products: 1,838
•   fuel and energy related activities: 787
•   capital goods: 211
scope 3: value chain9
the main contributors to the 2.5% reduction in  
2020 are related to a series of energy efficiency 
initiative. retrofitting of our fleet, the further 
integration and use of star connect and improved  
utilisation of vessels.
star connect is a monitoring system being 
implemented on all our vessels to provide 
visibility on the efficiency of the engine and the  
most effective sea voyage, with live data helping  
crews adjust and choose the most efficient path 
forward. we are also implementing a more 
limited version of the system on chartered vessels.
further efficiency improvements are 
dependent on a continued and enhanced energy  
efficiency drive, different fuel types, more 
modern vessels and technological advances. 
decarbonising end-to-end logistics
as part of our efforts to sustain leadership on 
decarbonisation and match customer needs 
and stakeholder demands, we are exploring ways  
in which we can work to include all emissions 
– our own, those related to the purchase of 
energy and those in our supply chain – in our 
decarbonisation efforts.
as the graphic below shows, the vast 
majority of our emissions come from our own 
operations (scope 1), which are dominated by 
ocean transport. as we expand our activities on 
land this situation is bound to change. however,  
our plan for expansion on land does not include 
significant asset ownership, and consequently 
emissions from our logistics supply chain 
(scope 3) are set to grow.
we are exploring how best to engage  
our suppliers in support of an end-to-end  
decarbonisation ambition, and we are working  
to expand our net zero solutions to customers 
to encompass offerings across end-to-end  
logistics, including trucking, rail and warehousing,  
as well as digital solutions to provide visibility 
on emissions end-to-end. 
our role in decarbonising logistics will be 
very different compared to our role in ocean 
transport, where maersk holds a leadership 
position and is a significant asset owner in an 
industry dominated by relatively few, large 
companies. the inland logistics industry 
landscape is very different, and we typically 
have limited operational control of the assets 
such as trucks, trains, warehouses. this will 
imply a different, more collaborative, approach 
where we partner with our logistics suppliers  
to work towards decarbonisation of our end-
to-end logistics offerings (scope 2 and scope 
3, as well as the small portion of our scope 1 
emissions outside ocean transport).
as part of this, we are working towards 
integrating environmental sustainability into 
procurement criteria in tenders.
9  data and assessment of material categories for scope 3 emissions for 2020 is based on analysis of procurement and accounting data performed by an external provider, and have not been in scope for pwc's 
review of this report.
in 2016, we launched our global integrator 
strategy of connecting and simplifying our 
customers’ supply chains. since then, we have 
transformed a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) to a 
focused and integrated global logistics company.
working with sustainability in logistics is a 
different challenge from that of decarbonising 
container shipping which is dominated by 
major market players, of which we are one of 
the largest. in contrast, the logistics industry is 
fragmented with its thousands of suppliers of 
trucking, warehousing, manning agencies, rail 
services etc. for example, maersk works with 
more than 3,000 suppliers of trucking services. 
as we grow our logistics business, we are 
determined to apply our commitment to 
responsible business practices, our willingness 
to use the leverage of our business to affect 
change – by ourselves alone and through 
partnerships – and our ambitions of decarbonising 
our business and enabling open, inclusive and 
sustainable trade. 
we have investigated the implications of the 
global integrator strategy on sustainability-
related risks, opportunities and responsibilities. 
one conclusion is that our exposure to risks on 
social issues, anti-corruption, environment and 
co2 emissions grow substantially as we take our 
business on land. this includes risks of corruption 
and working conditions – including safety 
challenges – for workers not hired by us, but 
working for us.
it is clear to us that our customers expect 
their logistics supplier to ensure responsible 
practices, and expect us to help them address 
their supply chain challenges on emissions and 
waste (read more on decarbonising end-to-end 
on the left).
our investigations led us to conclude that 
while we have a good foundation of responsible 
business practices within our own operations on 
which we can build, our set-up can be improved 
for delivering on the expectations to our 
customers, and the approach going forward 
will be integrated across functions and into our 
product offerings as a base component.
“responsible practices in our supply chain are important for maintaining our 
societal license to operate. we require our suppliers to live up to international 
standards on responsible business conduct, and this is equally important in 
transportation and logistics as it is in our factories and raw materials supply.  
when we hand over our logistics needs from end-to-end to an external party,  
we are looking for a logistics partner who can ensure responsibility and ultimately 
support positive societal and environmental impact in our logistics supply chain.”
johanna pirinen
senior vice president sustainable sourcing and logistics, stora enso
sustainability 
in our end-to-end 
 
 
offerings
managing all aspects of our customers' logistics supply 
chains includes taking on responsibility for sustainability 
performance. we are developing a more comprehensive 
approach to ensuring sustainable practices across our 
end-to-end offerings.
22
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
23
introduction
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategic sustainability priorities
strategic sustainability priorities
decarbonising logistics
market
   responding 
to a pandemic 
facing the global emergency of 2020, maersk's 
priorities were to protect our people, serve our 
customers and support society.
improving working conditions 
for truck drivers 
we are active participants in the 
responsible trucking project run by csr 
europe, which focuses on enabling better 
working conditions for truck drivers in  
the eu.
in 2020, the project drafted a set of 
social guidelines that set out minimum 
standards, which serves as a public stance 
from private organisations in support of 
better working conditions for truck drivers, 
and at the same time addresses the 
specific challenges this profession faces.
spot check tools and methodologies 
were also created for the group to use to 
understand the challenges on the ground, 
and for companies to have an indication of 
the extent to which these challenges are 
present in their own supply chain.
the guidelines will be published 2021, after  
which implementation of tools can begin.
in 2020, we investigated working conditions 
for contracted labourers in ports on the african 
continent. we focused on ports where maersk 
vessels call, but which are not owned by us.
this broader investigation was the result of 
unacceptable working conditions first reported 
by a danish ngo in the port of mombasa in 2019, 
which had found use 24-hour shifts with minimal 
breaks, to pay wages below the kenyan hourly 
minimum wage and to lack provision of safety 
equipment for workers. this is not acceptable to us. 
local maersk staff reviewed the practices of 
all the suppliers used for contracting labour 
in third-party operated ports in africa and 
compared these to our supplier code of conduct.  
in most cases there were minor gaps which 
were addressed through improvement plans.
however, most of the contracted labourers 
working in these ports are hired by the port 
operators, and we have little insight into the 
content of their contracts.
recognising that this is a high-risk area for  
ports, we are working to develop new audit  
and follow-up regimes to ensure our standards  
are met. 
better oversight of contract labour 
in african ports
comprehensive plan for the future
applying a customer perspective on responsible 
practices in our supply chain, we are developing 
a comprehensive work programme to deliver 
the necessary changes and improvements to 
our current practices across environmental, 
social and governance issues. 
 
we will use the levers most readily available to 
us to create impact. that includes: 
• strengthening our procurement digital 
landscape to enable the end-to-end supplier 
performance monitoring.
• defining the ambition level for responsibility 
and sustainability in our products.
• engaging our customers on risks in their 
logistics supply chain.
• collaborating across the industry to 
set standards and share cost of driving 
improvements.
 
these efforts will also help us prepare both 
for our own operations and to support our 
customers to comply with upcoming regulation 
on mandatory social and environmental due 
diligence in various national jurisdictions and 
from the eu. we welcome legislation at the eu 
level, applying to all businesses above a certain 
size that have activities with in the eu, because 
this provides a far more level playing field. 
the opposite, which is further proliferation of 
national regulation, we believe will fall short of 
solving the problems it is designed to alleviate.
going forward, we can leverage our experience  
from our extensive work on decarbonisation of 
and reducing air emissions from shipping. on 
these issues, maersk has been instrumental in 
standard setting for co2 emissions, customer 
engagement through product development 
ahead of the market, and collaboration in 
alliances such as clean cargo, the trident 
alliance and the getting to zero coalition. 
due to the fragmented nature of the logistics 
industry, we foresee a road to change consisting 
of many, comparatively smaller initiatives 
attacking the challenges bit by bit.
wheels already in motion
we have begun to take action in key areas. one 
example is the development of a collaborative 
approach to improve the monitoring of supplier  
compliance related to depot services, warehousing  
and trucking. this approach will be tested and  
rolled out globally in 2021, and sees our 
responsible procurement team carrying out 
due diligence in accordance with our supplier 
code of conduct prior to the signing of a contract,  
while local customer experience and health, 
safety, security and environment teams carry out  
onsite audits for the duration of the contract. 
furthermore, in all land-based activities we 
have contracted labour hired through thirdparty 
providers. we are working to enhance our 
management of risks related to this workforce. 
because while the companies responsible 
for these workers sign our supplier code of 
conduct, we are not satisfied with our controls 
for compliance in areas such as health and 
safety, wages, social security or insurance and 
working hours.
finally, while due diligence and onboarding 
procedures are already part of our responsible 
procurement programme, we are taking steps 
to strengthen post-contract monitoring and 
corrective measures. this will include increased 
audit activities, training suppliers of contracted 
labour on our standards and ways of working, 
and support tools for local management, 
including basic due diligence, non-compliance 
response options and an overview of potential 
risks. we expect these measures, including a pilot  
of 50 new audits per year, to be implemented 
within the next two years. 
read more about our core programmes on 
safety, responsible procurement, employee 
relations and anti-corruption in the responsible 
business practices section in this report.
24
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
25
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
strategic sustainability priorities
sustainability in our end-to-end offerings
organising new exports to save products
enabling global trade has been  
a.p. moller - maersk’s (maersk) finest task 
for decades, but there was arguably never 
more pressure to keep goods moving freely 
than in 2020. in extraordinary circumstances, 
our employees across the world have gone 
to extraordinary lengths to serve customers 
in new and creative ways, while taking extra 
care of each other and helping society to get 
through the crisis.
world. when the build-up was at its highest, 
more than 2,500 colleagues had completed 
their contracts, but could not be relieved of 
their duties. another, although much smaller, 
set of colleagues were hurt by the fact that 
they were unable to board vessels and fulfil 
their contracts.
to accelerate the process of bringing crew 
home, we gathered a cross-functional task 
force to create agreements with governments, 
airlines, airport operators, hotels and port 
authorities that would enable crews to obtain 
essential worker status to safely travel to and 
from major port hubs with major international 
airports, including on special maersk charter 
flights. moreover, an it solution was put 
together to help track seafarer locations and 
maximise the number of people we could 
move, and procurement teams helped book 
over 100,000 hotel nights and 200,000 meals 
during the summer alone.
to overcome the multitude of bottlenecks we 
found on land, we created our own quarantine 
safe centres in strategic locations such as 
manila and mumbai where crew could be tested 
and certified as healthy to travel to join a vessel. 
we also created hubs for local quarantine in 
high-volume areas such as the suez, europe, 
nigeria, malaysia and panama, which helped 
seafarers reach their destinations.
by the end of the year, we had succeeded
in helping overdue crew members on or 
off vessels. 
safe employment on land
more than 20,000 people work at the port 
terminals and inland facilities owned and 
operated by maersk on six continents. terminals 
play an important part in national and regional 
economies, first and foremost because they 
make sure goods flow to and from a country 
or region. in some countries, a maersk-owned 
terminal is the only gateway to international 
trade. the jobs created and economic activity  
sustained due to port activity have a positive  
impact throughout the surrounding communities.
across the terminals, we applied procedures 
to mitigate the risk of contracting covid-19. 
these included guidelines for the procedures 
that terminal and warehouse workers would 
have to adhere to before entering, while being in,  
and after leaving the workplace. this included 
training sessions and inspections of facilities to 
ensure safety for employees and other port  
and warehouse users. furthermore, we outlined  
employee rights in case of quarantine or staying  
at home, and ensured visibility of these rights to 
all employees. 
serving our customers – and helping suppliers
in addition to protecting our people, maersk’s 
top priority during the crisis was to ensure that 
the global logistics chains continue to work, so 
that businesses and people can trust supply 
chains to do their job – first and foremost that 
medical supplies reach hospitals and food 
reaches kitchen tables, but also to minimise 
harm to our economies and livelihoods.
throughout the covid-19 crisis, global supply 
chains have remained open: our container ships 
continue to sail, our ports and warehouses 
continue to operate and trucks deliver goods 
to distribution and fulfilment centres. to take 
one example, despite more than half the global 
economy being under lockdown, the world has  
avoided major disruption in global food markets. 
there are many examples of how our 
employees found new solutions to challenging 
supply chain problems. read one in the box below.
looking towards vaccines
the next phase in the covid-19 pandemic is 
now starting, as vaccines become ready for 
“being onboard for more than ten 
months was quite an experience. i had 
my holiday on board, celebrated my 
birthday as well, and never knew the 
next time i would go ashore. 
it was all about waiting and hoping 
for possibilities to off-board, coming 
to terms with cancelled flights and 
changing schedules. in the meantime, 
we found ways to keep a positive 
attitude and break the monotony of  
the sleep-eat-work cycle. 
what kept me going was the 
encouragement and bond of the crew, 
family calls made possible by the 
improved internet connectivity, drawing 
portraits and constant prayers. all of 
this made the physically challenging 
and mentally draining life on board  
with an overdue contract a little lighter.” 
cadet john godwin nallada  
on the maersk hidalgo  
from 4 november 2019 to 13 august 2020
on 24 march 2020, india came to a sudden 
standstill as prime minister narendra modi 
announced a strict nation-wide lockdown to 
contain the covid-19 pandemic. for maersk and 
its customers, this meant a massive disruption of 
supply chains – trucks were abandoned by  
drivers rushing to get home, labourers stopped 
turning up at ports and yards, and customs house 
agents disappeared amid policy confusion. 
reliance industries is the largest private 
company in india and a conglomerate spanning  
the energy, material, retail, entertainment and 
digital service sectors. under the lockdown, 
“how are you? is everyone safe?” this greeting 
became the standard opening comment in maersk  
meetings in 2020, as the covid-19 pandemic 
impacted where and how all our 80,000 
employees in 130 countries worked and lived.
alongside the threat to global health, the 
risk of collapsing economies with extensive job 
loss and shortage of goods grew fast as the 
pandemic progressed. while economies and 
individual livelihoods were widely impacted, 
global trade lanes and supply chains remained 
in service. because of flexible supply chains and 
digital connectivity, countries and businesses 
were able to maintain essential services and 
supplies, even as half the global population 
was in lockdown.
heroes trapped at sea
at exactly 12:00 local time, on 1 may 2020, 
maersk captains around the world tooted 
their horns in a celebration of the essential 
frontline workers who were keeping supply 
chains running – at sea, on the road, in ports, 
warehouses and factories across the world.
in maersk, seafarers in particular were 
celebrated as “the unsung heroes of the 
covid-19 pandemic”, as they continued to play 
an essential role in maintaining the flow of vital 
goods, such as food, fuels and medical supplies, 
that people everywhere need.
for many of our seafarers, the hero status 
was underlined by the fact that crews 
experienced prolonged stays on the same 
vessel, as crew changes were hindered by 
government restrictions.
normally, a crew member stays on a vessel 
anywhere from two to six months. the maritime 
labour convention states that crews can spend 
a maximum of 11 months on board. these norms  
were all broken in 2020. 
across the maersk network, a total of 6,000 
seafarers of 40 nationalities on 700 vessels 
work to ensure the flow of goods around the 
the maersk cadiz crew share a positive message with all their colleagues at sea.
large-scale distribution. maersk began planning 
the logistics involved in this as early as the 
summer of 2020. 
an important goal is to bring a vaccine to 
emerging and developing nations. to this end,  
covaxx and maersk established a global 
logistics partnership to distribute up to a billion 
doses of a covaxx vaccine worldwide in 2021. 
as members of the world economic forum's 
supply chain & transport industry action 
group, we also endorsed a charter in support 
of globally inclusive, safe and sustainable 
distribution of covid-19 vaccines. the charter 
calls for engagement, asset, competency and 
expertise sharing, and support for unicef's 
distribution efforts.
applying disaster response expertise
the logistics emergency team, the disaster 
response partnership which maersk has been 
an active member of since 2011, was activated 
in response to the covid-19 pandemic in 2020. 
we received one request for deployment of a 
cold chain into south sudan which will serve 
as storage for vaccines. we have placed three 
reefer containers with generator sets in a 
refugee centre, at a state hospital and the 
ministry of health, where they will serve as 
the backbone of a medical supply chain for ten 
million people. we are following this closely to 
assess whether it can be a scalable model for  
the global market at a later stage.
protecting our people 
serving our customers
helping society  
in the fight against covid-19
 in march 2020, the executive leadership defined three priority focus areas to guide 
 our response to the covid-19 crisis
reliance saw local demand for its important 
polymers business fall to zero. polymers are 
manufactured with a continuous process that is 
difficult to stop and restart, so reliance needed  
to keep its factories open.
with over 15,000 containers worth of polymers 
and no warehousing space, reliance’s only option 
was to shift from local businesses to exports. 
as road movement in india was halted in the 
early days of the lockdown, maersk saw rail as 
an obvious solution for reliance. however, local 
rail suppliers were not prepared to handle the 
unprecedented jump in volume from one train  
a week to 47 trains a week. our team contacted 
eight different rail vendors and closed an 
agreement with them in 48 hours.
an even larger challenge was securing containers  
to move the polymers. the lockdown meant that 
import clearances were not taking place at a regular  
pace, and cargo inventory was building up in ports 
and yards. 15,000 40-foot containers were required 
for these exports – 10,000 of these were needed at 
reliance’s jamnagar, gujarat plant alone. 
to ensure an adequate number of containers, 
depots, terminals and carriers worked together to 
pool resources and flag any spare containers.
26
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
27
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responding to a pandemic
 helping society in the fight
beyond our support to employees and 
customers, maersk contributions to support 
society in the fight against covid-19 have taken 
the form of donations of containers, freight, 
storage space, logistics expertise, face masks 
and other personal protective equipment (ppe),  
through donations and commercial  
activity, maersk has delivered more 
masks to canada than there are 
canadians, using multiple antonov 
124’s – one of the world’s largest 
cargo aircrafts.
europe
maersk bridge
a.p. moller holding initiated and coordinated an air bridge and 
supply chain operation to secure delivery of personal protective 
equipment (ppe) to healthcare workers in danish hospitals.  
a.p. moller - maersk sourced the equipment and transported it  
to the hospitals.
3d visor and ventilator tech
colleagues at apm terminals algeciras used 3d printing to  
help make protective visor for hospitals, rescue workers and  
health centres.
asia
clean water 
in small villages near the indian port of pipavav, apm terminals 
installed vending machines that dispense clean water so local 
people would not need to travel long distances for healthy 
drinking water where they might risk spreading covid-19.
relief effort 
maersk provided commercial logistics support to unicef to 
provide warehousing, transportation and distribution of critical 
supplies for pakistan’s national relief effort. 
health care
as part of our continued engagement in the delivery of health  
care in alang, india, we helped fund thermal screening for 13,000 
workers at the ship recycling yards in the area, and distribution of 
33,000 preventive masks. 170 covid-19 awareness sessions 
reached over 8,400 workers.
americas
masks 
maersk offices in brazil donated funds to purchase masks, hand 
sanitisers and more to a local hospital.
medical supplies 
donation of medical equipment including ventilators, thermometers 
and ppe to villanueva public hospital in guatemala
reefers 
maersk in san antonio, chile loaned two 40-foot reefers to the local 
hospital, so it could store pharmaceuticals.
africa
urgent supplies 
apm terminals funded a flight carrying 10,000 test kits, 15 oxygen 
concentrators, ppe and health kits for the nigerian government’s 
covid-19 response plan and unicef 's work in support of healthcare 
workers, children and families.
sanitisers 
maersk supported the kenyan government requests for 35 20-foot 
containers to transport raw materials for sanitiser from mombasa to 
nairobi for distribution to hospitals and medical workers.
food for schools
maersk in angola provided disinfectant gels, cleaning materials,  
gloves and masks as well as food and water to multiple local projects 
and schools.
vaccine infrastructure
in response to a logistics emergency team request, we deployed a cold 
chain consisting of three reefer containers with generator sets in three 
locations in south sudan, where they serve as adequate storage for 
vaccines, and the backbone of a medical supply chain for 10 million people.
and in some cases monetary donations. all cash  
donations are reviewed by maersk's compliance 
team. all donations were made in accordance 
with our covid-19 donations policy and 
approved by our internal crisis management 
team. the total amount donated by maersk in 
the fight against the effects of covid-19 is usd 
4.2 million. some examples of donations are 
shown below, in addition to some of the large 
operations our business was involved in to 
secure delivery of medical supplies and ppe  
to governments.
the tove maersk and mcc halong land at y.s. investments 
(plot 59) in alang, india, where cranes are used to lift steel 
parts onto the impermeable floor installed. 
    responsible  
      business  
        practices
responsible business practices are first and foremost about values,  
our commitments and meeting expectations of our stakeholders. it is 
also the foundation on which our entire value proposition of sustainable 
end-to-end offerings rests. 
in this section, we report on our most material issues, with a more 
in-depth look into the issues of safety, responsible ship recycling and 
diversity and inclusion.
28
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
29
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
 helping society in the fight
responding to a pandemic
why is it important
safety at work is a basic human right, and workplace conditions directly 
impact and influence workers as well as their families and communities. 
keeping our people safe is a core value and an ethical responsibility for 
us as a company towards our employees, their families and communities.
ambitions
we want to protect our people, the environment and our business, 
eliminate fatalities and severe injuries, enable maersk to be a preferred 
employer and provide safe and resilient products and services to  
our customers. 
targets
2020: 
• top 300 leaders have completed leading safety differently workshops.
• verification of effectiveness of critical controls.
• continuous improvement in employee engagement, measured through 
our gallup survey.
2021: 
leading-indicator targets for building safety capacity are set for:
• learning team activity (to be completed within 40 days of every  
high potential incident)
• leadership gembas (to be carried out according to plan) 
• critical risk projects (on-time and on-scope delivery)
progress in 2020
a health, safety, security and environmental (hsse) framework was 
developed throughout 2020 and launched early in 2021, aligning how 
safety processes and critical controls are implemented across all 
operations, including the allocation of core safety responsibilities and 
accountabilities of both employees and leaders of all levels across  
the business.
we have set targets and actively pursue progress within our focus areas. 
leadership
• the majority of the planned leading safety differently workshops had 
to be cancelled due to covid-19 travel restrictions. however, 80 of our 
targeted top 300 leaders completed virtual sessions in 2020.
• we designed a new leadership programme which we expect to 
launch in 2021. this consists of a toolkit for leaders to direct, lead and 
manage safety with easily accessible and inspiring content that is real 
and relevant to their role and will help them integrate it into their  
daily business.
• roll-out and implementation of the safety leadership gemba 
guidance which helps reconnect leadership to the reality of everyday 
work and to learn from the frontline, continued during 2020. despite 
covid-19 restrictions, more than 28,000 gemba activities could take 
place across the company.
building capacity
• the collaborative approach to critical risk project management,  
where different parts of our company work together to uncover 
risks, create controls and evaluate and validate those, was integrated 
into the business. results include risks related to mooring, crane 
operations, access to cargo areas and more, as well as a new vessel 
inspection app.
• adapting to the covid-19 pandemic, we developed a virtual delivery 
solution for learning teams, which was tested late in 2020 and is 
being rolled-out in early 2021.
culture
• we see safety as a foundational contributor to employee 
engagement, and in line with our target the overall score in our 
engagement survey improved throughout 2020. 
• the annual global safety day had a somewhat smaller reach than in  
previous years due to covid-19. where possible, the day was 
celebrated under the theme ’learning from each other’. this included 
more than 600 learning teams working on critical risks in their 
operations and on mental health and well-being, an area of great 
importance in 2020 due to the effects of covid-19 on the well-being 
of our people. all learning collated from the frontline will inform the 
2021 strategy and planning. 
safety
fatalities in 2020
sadly, a person lost his life working on one of our facilities. we realise that there is still much more for us to do, to learn and to improve in addressing our 
workplace risks.
business segment
location
description and learnings
employed by
terminals & towage 
apapa terminal,  
nigeria
a 23-year old roofer lost his life when a scaffold collapsed after being hit by the boom of a tipping crane.  
we identified multiple factors that contributed to this tragic incident. our employees and contractors have 
since used the learning teams approach to see if the gaps exist in other facilities, and how to close them.
subcontractor
a.p. moller - maersk’s (maersk) safety strategy  
is grounded in our safety differently philosophy, 
where the central premise is that safety is 
defined by having the capacity to manage risks 
under variable conditions. this must be enacted 
through leadership that engages with front-line 
employees and provides the support they need 
to make safe operations easier. 
this philosophy is also evident in our safety 
targets, which do not highlight the absence of  
accidents, but rather the presence of leadership,  
that continuously engage with frontline 
employees to build capacity to eliminate as 
many as possible of the factors that contribute 
to the occurrence of accidents, and to manage 
the outcome of the accidents that still occur. 
we pursue the targets through activities in 
three tracks: engaging with workers, building 
capacity and promoting a learning culture. see 
2020 progress on the next page.
aligning standards everywhere
up until 2020, maersk’s safety organisation 
was highly decentralised, which in some cases 
hindered the implementation of our safety 
strategy, and we have therefore reorganised our 
work to reinforce that maersk has one, and only 
one, safety strategy, which is implemented and 
enforced equally across the company.
the new central safety and resilience team 
creates a strong pool of resources and tools 
including implementation support available at 
all levels across the company. in this way, we 
are able to match and mirror the integrated 
company that maersk is becoming, and assure 
our customers that when they leave their 
tragic fire leads to  
new stowage system
the official investigation of a fire on 
board the maersk honam in march of 
2018, where five seafarers tragically lost 
their lives, was finalised in 2020 by the 
transport safety investigation bureau 
(tsib) in singapore. they concluded 
that the most likely source of the fire 
was a block of containers with declared 
dangerous cargo stowed inside a cargo 
hold in the forepart of the vessel. 
according to the report, the cause of the 
fire is not conclusive, but highly likely 
originated from the decomposition of 
dangerous cargo generating intense heat.
all cargo aboard maersk honam 
was accepted and stowed onboard the 
vessel according to existing international 
guidelines and practices, which proved 
insufficient to prevent the loss of life 
and extensive damage caused by the fire. 
in response, we developed a risk-based 
stowage concept which divides each 
vessel into six different risk tolerance 
zones, and distributes the cargo in a way 
that ensures maximum fire resistance.
the system is now implemented on 
our entire fleet, both on the vessels we 
own and on those we charter. we are also 
working to enable a review and update 
of the international regulations of this 
area, in order to optimally protect all crew, 
cargo, environment and vessels.
supply chain obligations in our hands, we have 
the capacity for safe operations in place. (read 
more about sustainability in our end-to-end 
offerings on pp. 23-24).
managing risks through learning teams
over the past two years, we completed a number  
of projects, based on identification of the most 
critical risks related to fatal and severe injuries 
across our operational contexts. these include 
cargo fires, warehousing operations, dropped 
objects, mooring operations, man overboard 
and working at height. 
the risks were identified and solutions 
developed using a core element in the safety 
differently toolbox, namely the learning teams 
approach, where front-line workers share their 
experiences with leadership teams, allowing  
for a shared understanding of the risks and 
possible solutions, which can inform the 
allocation of resources and responsibility. in 
support of this approach, our port terminals  
organisation developed a leader-led programme,  
including an app that helps structure such 
learning conversations. by the end of 2020, 
there had been more than 36,000 recorded 
activities using the app since its launch in march 
2020, and 4,831 times where unsafe work or 
working conditions were stopped before an 
incident occurred.
safer mooring ropes through  
crew engagement
one learning teams example is our work on 
mooring, which is one of the most dangerous 
operations on a vessel. when a mooring 
on global safety day 2020, the crew on svitzer al safliya discussed the risks, procedures and every day experiences 
of connecting and disconnecting towlines to and from vessels. the results were applied to improve best practices 
across the company. 
rope breaks, it can move at over 800 km/
hour and snapback incidents can potentially 
cause severe injuries and fatalities. through 
crew engagement, this risk was defined and 
a solution was developed. now, maersk has 
begun implementing a rope innovation called 
snapback arrestor, where a broken mooring 
rope simply drops to the ground, instead of 
snapping back in unpredictable paths. 
mooring is an everyday event across the 
maersk fleet and in the process mooring ropes 
breaking is bound to happen. the sba ropes 
reduce the consequences significantly, and as 
such reflects the ‘safety differently’ approach 
as it builds capacity to safeguard people onboard 
as well as ashore. the phase-in of the new ropes 
across our fleet is set to be complete by 2025.
30
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
31
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
safety
responsible business practices
responsible ship recycling
over four years after we landed our first vessel 
at the shreeram yard (plot 78), taking our 
declaration of wanting to change the ship 
recycling industry from words to action, the  
10-km stretch of beach with recycling yards in 
alang is a different world. we are proud of the 
progress made in alang and are expanding our 
ambition to focus on creating opportunities for 
responsible ship recycling globally.
documented improvements 
in 2020 we conducted an impact study at yards 
engaged by a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) in 
alang to document the outcomes. between 
2017 and 2019, in line with the responsible ship 
recycling standard (rsrs), nine maersk vessels 
were recycled at five different alang yards under 
full-time supervision with stop-work authority 
and a verification regime through external audits.  
after 3,100 training sessions, 2,000 toolbox talks  
and 35 lloyd's register audits, not a single lost- 
time injury incident or fatality occurred. we have  
incentivised yards to invest in continual upgrades, 
which has also led to the construction of full 
impermeable floors in nine maersk-approved 
yards and the purchase of 15 heavy-duty  
cranes in 11 yards that eliminate contact 
between vessel blocks the inter-tidal zone. 
there have been no major spills or incidents 
with hazardous materials on our projects at 
maersk-engaged yards. 
appointment letters and payslips, minimum 
wages, overtime payments, annual health 
checks, a 24/7 ambulance dedicated to each 
yard and many more such facilities are now 
standard practice, along with over 1200-men 
ilo-compliant worker dormitories built by 
maersk-approved yards. for the wider alang 
community and workforce, access to qualified 
healthcare and awareness training has led to 
improved health outcomes.
a progressive transformation is also seen at 
a broader alang industry level – approximately 
80 of the total of around 120 operational 
yards voluntarily comply with the hong kong 
convention, which is the only global convention 
on ship recycling.
regulatory barriers to further progress
however, at yards in alang as well as among 
responsible shipowners, the frustration and  
concern today are almost palpable. international  
waste legislation, the basel ban amendment 
(bba) on export of hazardous waste adopted 
in 1995, entered into force on 5 dec 2019, and 
may effectively hinder non-oecd countries 
such as india, from offering to recycle ships 
coming from oecd countries. this is particularly 
disappointing to the leading alang yards, 
who have invested significant resources 
and engaged extensively with the european 
commission over the past two years in order to 
comply with the eu ship recycling regulation 
(eusrr). these yards now comply with the eu 
regulation, except on a few solvable items 
related to waste management and access to 
hospitals with trauma facilities, and the yards 
were pending inclusion in the eu list, which 
lists global yards allowed to recycle vessels 
registered in eu countries.
this situation is detrimental to the momentum  
achieved at alang over the past five years, as 
well as to the shipowners. we do not agree with 
the claims made that the bba now supersedes 
the eusrr and the imo hong kong convention 
(once it enters into force). both the eu and imo 
regulations offer equal levels of protection 
as the basel convention and general legal 
principles dictate the application of the specific 
legislation on ship recycling rather than the 
general provisions of waste handling.
our position, based on thorough legislative 
analysis, is that there are legal options available 
to the eu and we are engaging with a multitude 
of stakeholders to find short- and long-term 
solutions to resolve this gridlock.
changing our ambition
a further challenge is the fact that in the next  
few years, globally a big wave of post-panamax  
vessels, (whose category name is derived from 
the fact that they are too large to pass through 
the panama canal), will near their end of life. 
very few yards included in the eu list are 
capable of handling post-panamax vessels, and 
even fewer wish to accept these, with repairs/
conversions either being their core business or 
offshore/military vessel recycling their priority 
due to higher margins. thus, there is today 
a lack of capacity for responsible recycling 
of mainstream, commercial, post-panamax 
vessels, regardless of which flag they sail under 
and where the responsible recycling facilities 
are located. 
with proven results from alang that 
engagement on the ground leads to change, 
we are confident that opportunities to remedy 
this situation can emerge from india and other 
non-oecd countries. thus, maersk's ambition 
for our work with responsible ship recycling 
has changed from radically transforming the 
industry beginning in alang to focusing on 
creating opportunities globally.
we are in active dialogue with a few global 
greenfield projects, for example one in the african  
continent, where we as interested end-users 
assist in researching, developing the business 
case and performing initial due diligence.
why is it important
despite many shipowners having policies for 
responsible ship recycling, around 90% of the vessels 
recycled globally are under poor health, safety and 
environmental conditions. as a leader in the shipping 
industry, we can make a real impact by driving 
opportunities for responsible practice-driven, 
financially viable recycling.
ambitions
to create opportunities for responsible ship recycling  
globally for the benefit of workers and the environment,  
as well as responsible yards and shipowners.
    
    
targets
2020:
• continue to invest and work with selected  
yards in alang
• develop the wider alang area
• actively support and participate in the 
development of the ship recycling  
transparency initiative
2021:
• create opportunities for responsible ship 
recycling of post-panamax ships globally
• work with industry stakeholders to support 
yards globally, including non-oecd countries, to 
achieve eusrr-compliance and thereby increase 
actual capacity on the eu list
• continue development of the wider alang area
• actively support and participate in the development  
of the ship recycling transparency initiative
progress in 2020
three vessels were sent for rsrs-compliant 
recycling to the alang yards in india and one for 
eusrr- and rsrs-compliant recycling to an aliaga 
yard in turkey. through a robust framework, we 
continually ensure rsrs compliance which goes far 
beyond the hong kong convention at all maersk-
engaged yards globally.
with our continual engagement to improve 
healthcare access in the wider alang area in 2020, 
the mobile health unit provided 17,600 services and 
1,750 laboratory tests. the training programme
aimed at raising awareness on hygiene, substance 
abuse and sexually transmitted diseases covered 
5,000 workers. 
we remain steering group members of the ship 
recycling transparency initiative (srti), which we 
co-founded in 2018. the srti seeks to accelerate a 
voluntary, market-driven approach to responsible 
ship recycling practices, with today 11 shipowners 
disclosing. with a total of 26 signatories (shipowners 
and other stakeholders), it includes around 42% of 
the global container fleet by teu capacity.
audit results all yards
number of findings in 
vessel landing month and 
in december 2020 (or at 
completion of vessel) at all 
yards with maersk vessels  
in 2019 and 2020.
y.s investments plot 59, 
alang
1
jan '20
1
jan '21
j.r.d. industries plot 30, 
alang
1
jan '20
1
nov '20
Şök denizcilik, aliaga
13
jul '20
0
jan '21
alang auto gen engg.  
co. plot 24, alang
24
apr '19
1
jan '20
  audits take place at regular 
intervals, and a new alang 
yard recycling a maersk vessel 
for the first time typically 
takes two months to achieve 
rsrs compliance. the one 
remaining audit finding is on 
excess overtime which is a 
challenge in many industries 
and geographies with  
migrant workforces.
we are proud of the progress made in 
alang and are expanding our ambition 
to focus on creating opportunities for 
responsible ship recycling globally.
the tove maersk and mcc halong undergoing responsible ship recycling at y.s. investments (plot 59) in alang, india – sep ’20.
the mobile health unit complied with covid-19 guidelines while it served workers from all alang yards.
32
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
33
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
responsible business practices
responsible ship recycling
43%
44%
18%
16%
14%
17%
24%
23%
29%
30%
 diversity and inclusion
2020 was a year of increased focus on inclusion 
and non-discrimination in much of the world, 
with movements such as black lives matter 
originating in the us, as well of new bursts of 
attention to lgbtq+ rights and continued focus 
on #metoo around the world.
our global presence means that we are 
affected by events and movements regardless 
of where they take place, and they impact us to 
take specific actions and provide input to  
a.p. moller - maersk’s (maersk) continued, 
global conversation on diversity and inclusion.
diversity and inclusion are part of our value 
system, and our support for social justice 
and anti-discrimination is also expected by 
our employees. in the north american part 
of our company, we took time to reflect on 
what discrimination means and how this 
impacts our teams. conversation with our 
leaders began with virtual sessions focused 
on race discrimination, providing them with 
a framework to support discussions within 
their teams. we also ramped up our focus on 
allyship, where you work for change even if you 
are not personally affected by what you are 
aiming to change. this topic is not new to  
maersk but we find that its importance to the 
diversity agenda is growing. 
openness relies on psychological safety
we have clear policies in place stating that we 
do not accept discrimination, and we have a 
whistleblower system with a range of options 
for our employees to communicate grievances. 
it can be daunting raising grievances on such 
sensitive issues and we want to do more to 
encourage our employees to speak up and 
report any concerns of harassment and or 
discrimination at maersk. 
we are doing this through increasing 
awareness and capability in building 
psychologically safe teams and cultures. we 
build this into our leadership programmes 
and provide separate virtual learning sessions 
available to all employees.
in 2021 we will be conducting our first global 
inclusion survey that aims to increase our 
understanding on issues such as discrimination, 
harassment, diversity and inclusion. the 
results from the survey will be used to focus 
our priorities going forward. we have taken 
the decision to set up an ombuds office to 
specifically hear out grievances that employees 
do not feel comfortable reporting to human 
resources departments, line managers or 
posting to the whistleblower system. 
why is it important
it is a basic obligation and a core element of our 
values not to discriminate against our employees. 
discrimination bars people from living up to their 
full potential, creates inequality and less stable 
and prosperous societies. we also want to leverage 
the competitive advantage that diverse teams and 
inclusive cultures can bring to our business, and 
meet our employees' demand for working in a 
company that values diversity and inclusion.
ambitions
we aspire to create an inclusive culture where  
all employees can have a sense of belonging and 
contribute to their fullest. in doing this, we will be in 
a prime position to attract people from the widest 
talent pool, specifically increasing the gender and 
nationality diversity at our senior levels.
    
targets
our target is to have three women on the board of 
directors, if the board consists of less than twelve 
members, and four women, if the board consists of 
twelve or more members.
for senior management, we have targets for 
representation of women and nationalities  
(see side bar). 
progress in 2020
the target for representation of women on the  
a.p. moller - maersk board of directors was met in 
202010. however, we are still not satisfied with the 
progress we have made towards our nominal 
targets on gender and national representation in 
senior management. we are implementing new 
controls and processes to drive improvements, and 
during 2021, we will set and share updated targets 
for the period from 2021 - 2025.
our progress on women in management is 
adversely impacted by the fact that the share of 
women working in logistics and technology – which 
are areas in which we recruit many candidates – 
is very low. in january 2020, we joined an initiative 
hosted by the danish shipping association focused 
on attracting more women to shipping and logistics,  
and we have established a women’s network in our 
global technology function.
as part of our global maternity policy, we have a 
target of reaching a 90% retention rate for women 
returning to work after maternity leave. in 2020, 
this was the case for 74% of the target group. 
maersk's gender diversity and inclusion policy 
provides details of our actions to increase gender 
diversity. it is available on maersk's website11.
targets and 
performance on 
diversity and inclusion
representation  
of women
representation of 
persons not from  
high-income oecd 
countries
executives 
20%
executives 
30%
senior leaders 
18%
senior leaders 
21%
leaders 
25%
leaders 
38%
senior managers 
35%
senior managers 
52%
2019
target 2021
2020
containers sending a message
while we recognise the need for our company 
to work harder to improve on our own targets 
on diversity and inclusion, we also believe that 
symbolic statements can help create global 
awareness of fundamental rights. 
in that vein, we have branded two maersk 
containers in rainbow colours. they made their 
debut in mobile, usa and are now travelling the 
world with goods from our customers, and making 
appearances at select events for our company. 
the containers have raised interest from 
many of our customers who are also committed 
to driving inclusion in their organisations. in 
partnership with our customers, we will see these 
containers spread this important message. in 
2020 both containers were deployed to deliver 
humanitarian relief to victims of hurricane laura  
in louisiana, and later left los angeles to arrive  
in shenzen in china, whereafter they connected  
to europe.
unconscious bias work continues
our initiatives on diversity and inclusion 
support our drive towards targets on gender 
and nationality representation in management. 
our key approach is employee engagement 
and capability building, and over the past three 
years, we have worked on creating awareness 
of unconscious bias and related effects, 
establishing inclusion networks covering our 
global organisation.
as is the case for race, gender, beliefs, 
disabilities and more, it is a basic human right 
not to be discriminated against due to one's 
sexual orientation. in support of human rights, 
we have participated in pride activities since 2018.
2020 saw our planned pride celebrations 
move to a virtual platform and we used this 
opportunity to reflect on the history and 
evolution of pride, among other things through 
a series of global webinars to understand its 
journey and essence: the ability to freely and 
safely express oneself. this also allowed us 
to address the racial conversations that were 
dominating societies around the world and the 
importance of talking about racism as well as 
where we stand as a company.
3
10
women 
     out of
representation of women on the a.p. møller - mærsk a/s board of directors (2020)
10  a.p. moller - maersk a/s has a number of subsidiary companies that fall under the danish legislative requirements on gender reporting, and which have all set 
targets for the underrepresented gender on the respective boards of directors. of the companies, a portion have already obtained target representation on the 
board, while the remaining continue to strive for their targets. see the management reports of the respective companies.
11 https://www.maersk.com/careers/work-with-us/diversity-and-inclusion
29%
34%
19%
20%
14%
11%
34
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
35
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
responsible business practices
diversity and inclusion
employee relations
working with unions 
during covid-19
during 2020, we engaged 
with trade unions at global 
and local levels to discuss 
the needs of our employees 
both at sea and on land 
and to make a joint effort in 
protecting their health. 
our leadership had 
discussions with the 
international transport 
workers federation's 
leadership to align our 
approach on covid-19 
and explore options for 
collaboration. this resulted 
in sharing of information 
and knowledge about our 
solutions to make the 
necessary crew changes 
and get seafarers home, 
just as we coordinated our 
discussions with the ilo 
which led to a resolution in 
december 2020, recognising 
seafarers as essential workers.  
locally, we have worked with 
trade unions on: 
• health & safety measures 
for employees, including 
mutual agreements on 
workplace instructions, 
cleaning and sanitation, 
and protective clothing.
• business continuity, 
including different ways 
of servicing vessels, shift-
changes in terminals and 
on tugs.
• supply chain continuity,  
where the broader supply  
chain community including  
truckers, rail staff, 
warehousing workers and  
cargo owners, established  
agreements and conditions  
for collaboration. 
why is it important
the way we treat our employees is fundamental  
to the way we want to do business, and our 
employees are essential to the success of  
a.p. moller - maersk's (maersk). 
this begins with ensuring respect for 
internationally recognised human rights and  
labour standards in all our workplaces.
ambitions
all our employees will be treated fairly in a safe  
and healthy working environment, and we are 
committed to creating a working environment 
where each employee feels valued and can prosper.
    
targets
2020
• ensure compliance with our commit rule on 
global employee relations, which is based on 
internationally recognised labour standards.
• in 2020, improve employee relations maturity 
level in the business by increasing management 
capabilities and mitigating risks of working with 
third-party labour in our supply chain.
2021:
• ensure compliance with our commit rule on 
global employee relations, which is based on 
internationally recognised labour standards.
• conduct our bi-annual labour rights assessment 
• help to make employee engagement and 
workforce management integral to the 
development of end-to-end logistics
• ensure that new ways of working (e.g. flexible 
working hours, digitisation/automation) are 
introduced responsibly and involving relevant 
stakeholders
progress in 2020
our work on employee relations rests on the 
core belief that employees are essential to the 
development and success of our business. we act 
in accordance with international frameworks and 
conventions from the un, oecd and ilo, as well as in  
compliance with local legislation where we operate. 
our leadership have access to support for their 
negotiations with employee representatives, where  
they discuss the local collective bargaining agreement.
a focus area in 2020 was third-party labour 
which is a risk area and important for us as we 
expand our logistics business. read more on  
pp. 23-24.
covid-19 prevented the roll-out of the employee 
relations face-to-face training programme. instead, 
we began the development of a virtual training 
programme that will be launched in 2021.
the covid-19 pandemic did not lead to any 
maersk employees losing their job. however, we 
let go of 2,700 employees in 2020 as part of the 
strategic integration of our business and brands. 
when the organisation changes, we have pre-
established information and consultation processes 
with participation from both management and  
employees, and we work to ensure that all standards  
for employee relations are upheld.
the work to align our business to future demands  
and opportunities will continue, and we are taking 
action to enter into these processes as prepared  
as possible. 
one example is that we introduced a new way 
to engage management teams in our terminal 
business in working pro-actively with employee 
relations. we mapped the potential risks and level 
of maturity in managing employee relations in 
all terminals, with indicators such as the level 
of stability of political, social and environmental 
issues in the community and the frequency of 
communication between management and 
employee representatives. the goal is to build 
maturity in these relationships including a vision and 
strategy for each terminal on employee relations.
in 2020, the whistleblower hotline was used  
143 times to report on issues related to potential 
violations of hr-related laws, rules or company 
values. 17 of these cases were substantiated, 11 of 
which were related to the commit rule on global 
employee relations. appropriate action was taken 
according to company policies. 45 cases are still 
under investigation.
responsible procurement
why is it important
through our operations and purchasing decisions 
we have an impact on social, environmental and 
economic conditions in our industry and global 
supply chains. monitoring and addressing 
sustainability risks in our supply chain strengthens, 
our stakeholders’ trust in our brand and increases 
our preparedness for rising regulatory attention on 
due diligence in supply chains.
ambitions
manage the risk of supplier non-compliance with 
our supplier code of conduct to support our 
commercial ambitions of end-to-end sustainable 
product offerings.
targets
2020
• ensure that all purchasing activities are aligned 
with rp requirements. successfully close 
improvement plans.
• review responsible procurement programme to 
align with evolving risk picture from expansion 
of activities on land.
• participate in collaborative efforts on trucking.
2021:
• ensure all purchasing activities are aligned with 
responsible procurement requirements 
• expand scope of responsible procurement in 
line with ambitions to strengthen sustainability 
in end-to-end offerings
• operationalise post-sourcing audits for trucking, 
warehousing and third-party labour providers 
• prepare for legislation on supply chain  
due diligence
progress in 2020
the a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) supplier code of 
conduct (code) sets out minimum requirements  
on responsible business practices for our direct 
suppliers and select sub-suppliers, to operate in 
accordance with responsible business principles 
and in full compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations. in our own supply chain, we work 
through our responsible procurement programme. 
increasingly, this also serves a commercial purpose, 
as our global integrator strategy leads to purchasing 
logistics on behalf of customers outside our own 
supply chain. on activities related to this aspect, 
please see p. 23. 
in our responsible procurement programme,  
we have assessed compliance with the supplier 
code of conduct with approximately 3,500 
suppliers in high-risk categories, by conducting 
due diligence activities such as audits, self-
assessments and documentation reviews. this is 
out of a total supplier population of about 59,000. 
we use a risk-based approach working with suppliers  
in 15 high-risk categories12. suppliers are asked to 
address any gaps in the implementation of 
requirements through a time-bound improvement 
plan in consultation with maersk. periodic reviews 
and follow-up audits are conducted.
our audit and assessment activities in 2020  
are shown in the side bar. the number of audits 
decreased due to the impact of covid-19, and 
physical audits were replaced by virtual solutions. 
equally, the number of self-assessments decreased, 
as we took in fewer new suppliers in high-risk 
categories, and timelines for improvement plans 
had to be extended. we did not terminate any 
relationships as a result of non-compliance. 
to raise internal awareness of our standards  
in procurement, we created a short e-learning 
programme on responsible procurement in 2020, 
which is now part of the annual compliance 
training for all employees.
one of our most important high-risk categories 
is shipyards. in 2020, we co-led the work of a un 
global compact action platform to develop a 
guidance for shipyards, which will serve as an 
implementation tool for the sustainable ocean 
principles released in 2019. it will establish 
common industry standards for social and 
environmental performance, and is expected to  
be published in 2021.
audits and  
assessments  
in 2020
+/- 3,500
suppliers in the high-risk 
categories
control actions 
carried out
• shipyard audits
12
(14)
10
(14)
• other audits
5
(54)
4
(48)
• other self-assessments
595
(742)
71
(68)
442
(622)
441
(619)
of which
• pre-qualification 
assessments
qualified 
suppliers
improvement plans 
established to address 
critical and major findings
12  our 15 high-risk categories are: trucking and intermodal, warehousing services, facility management, outsourced labour, terminals, shipbuilding yards and 
drydocks, security offshore, promotional items, customs agents, security onshore, construction, chemicals and paints, equipment, maintenance and repair, 
container manufacturers and manning (seafarers).
2020
2019
36
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
37
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
responsible business practices
employee relations and responsible procurement
air emissions
reducing  
the impact of sox
research has shown  
that the annual, ship-related 
global health impacts from  
using fuel with 3.5% sulphur 
instead of 0.5% fuel are
why is it important
air emissions from ocean-going shipping have 
negative effects on human health and the natural 
environment, as they cause diseases and 
premature death.
we support regulation such as the cap on sulphur 
content in fuel oil, which will significantly reduce 
these effects and create a level playing field for 
socially and environmentally responsible practices 
in the industry.
ambitions
to continue to be an industry leader working 
towards reducing air emissions from international 
shipping, particularly in regard to sox and nox 
emissions, which are important in port areas and 
when sailing close to shore.
    
targets
• fully comply with regulatory demands to reduce 
air emissions impacts and continue investing in 
maintaining and implementing solutions that 
will enable this.
• actively engage at international and regional 
levels to secure a level playing field and high 
levels of enforcement of regulation across  
the industry.
progress in 2020
across a.p. moller - maersk's (maersk) activities,  
we strive to minimise the known negative impacts 
related to our operations. this is also true for air 
emissions which include sox, nox and particulate 
matters. all of these are potentially harmful to 
human health and we work to fully comply with 
regulatory demands to limit air emissions and strive 
to minimise the impacts. 
on 1 january, one of the largest changes in the 
maritime industry in decades came into effect with 
the international maritime organization's (imo) 0.5% 
global cap on the content of sulphur in fuels. one of 
the enforcement mechanisms for this legislation is  
a ban on carrying non-compliant fuels on vessels, 
except for vessels where scrubbers are installed to 
clean exhaust gasses. mainly due to the imo 2020 
sulphur cap, which maersk complies with through 
the use of low sulphur fuels as well as scrubbers on 
a share of our vessels, sox emissions have dropped 
significantly from approx. 569,000 tonnes in 2019 to 
approx. 102,000 tonnes in 2020.
thorough preparations in the years leading up to 
this date ensured a successful switch from heavy 
fuel oil to low sulphur fuels across our fleet of both 
owned and chartered vessels. in 2020, we saw only 
four cases of non-compliance with international 
sulphur regulations caused by contamination in the 
supply chain of oil or by human error. as a remedial 
action, we have begun testing sulphur content of 
the fuel prior to bunkering.
the main concern in the years leading up to the cap 
taking effect was uneven enforcement, as it was 
estimated that a large container vessel could save 
around usd 750,000 sailing from a port in asia to  
a port in europe when using non-compliant 3.5% 
marine fuel instead of compliant 0.5% fuel. 
while the level of control is not always as 
stringent as we would have hoped for, we have 
received no indication that compliance is lacking. 
looking at which oil types are sold on the global 
market is a useful proxy for evaluating compliance, 
and it appears that the low-sulphur fuel uptake is 
at the expected level. however, it should also be 
noted that due to covid-19, port state controls 
have been made more difficult. we therefore hope 
that enforcement campaigns can resume in 2021. 
the use of scrubbers to clean the vessels' 
exhaust of sox remains a discussion point and  
no independent global survey of the effects of 
scrubbers has yet been produced to support global 
legislation. still, more national and regional 
legislation is being implemented, for example in 
the eu, some us states and australia, requiring 
vessels to shut off the scrubber system when 
entering near-coastal waters and switch to 
low-sulphur oil. as a result, more ports are 
expected to declare a ban of open-loop scrubbers.
maersk has installed open-loop scrubbers  
on a share of our vessels as a commercial risk 
management measure.
7 million
childhood 
asthma cases13
137,000
premature  
deaths
0.5%
sulphur content
usd 
750,000
by using non-
compliant fuel.
carrying and 
using only low-
sulphur fuels on 
vessels
installing 
scrubbers to 
clean vessels' 
exhaust
ocean health
expanding our 
support for the ocean 
cleanup
since 2018, maersk has  
been proud to partner with 
the ocean cleanup, providing 
offshore support for their 
plastic waste cleanup system 
in the pacific ocean. a new, 
three-year partnership 
agreement was established 
during 2020. it expands the 
collaboration to include both 
maritime and end-to-end 
logistics services, in line with 
the anticipated scale-up of 
the ocean cleanup's ocean 
activities as well as the 
expansion to include systems 
deployed in large rivers. 
maersk's assistance 
will range from shipping, 
customs clearance and 
warehouse and storage 
management. 
on the offshore side,  
in addition to deployment 
services, maersk will 
contribute to developing a 
more sustainable maritime 
approach with alternative 
fuels and new fleet design. 
maersk’s support is provided 
as full or partial donations,  
or on favourable terms. 
the ocean cleanup’s 
goal is to reach a 90% 
reduction of floating ocean 
plastic by 2050. this is an 
important issue to many of 
our seafarers as well as to 
colleagues on land, and in 
2020 we ran a campaign 
encouraging employees and 
teams to become ocean 
ambassadors, take local 
initiatives and share their 
efforts to clean up beaches 
and their environment. 
despite covid-19 restrictions, 
we saw around 80 team 
contributions from around 
the world.
why is it important
the global oceans redistribute co2 and heat,  
supply people and communities with food, water, 
renewable energy, and build livelihoods through 
tourism, trade and transport. the health of 
the ocean is rapidly deteriorating due to increasing 
temperatures, acidification, depletion of natural 
resources and pollution from land and sea, 
including large quantities of plastic waste. 
ambitions
we see ourselves as citizens of the oceans and we  
are committed to doing no harm while at the same 
time actively participating in restoring ocean health  
and resilience and protecting animal habitats.
    
targets
• zero non-contained oil spills above 10 m³.
• fully comply with rules and regulations to minimise  
negative impact on ocean health, including waste 
management and ballast water systems
• continue collaboration with the ocean cleanup. 
• support ocean science research through data 
collection and partnerships.
progress in 2020
our first obligation as citizens of the oceans is to 
comply with rules and regulations that safeguard 
ocean health. for a.p. moller - maersk (maersk), this 
includes managing fuels or chemical substances to 
avoid spills into water, managing waste to keep it 
out of the oceans and living up to the regulation on 
ballast water. we have policies and procedures to 
manage and mitigate all these risks.
in 2020, there were two non-contained spills.  
one spill to land in our terminal business in  
the netherlands (19 m3) and one spill to water 
relating to maersk supply service and resulting  
from a mud spill (20.3 m3). 
dumping waste at sea contributes to the ailing 
health of oceans and the biodiversity crisis. maersk 
has a zero-dumping policy, obligating all vessels  
to store waste and discard it when in a port with 
adequate facilities. we are challenged by a lack of 
capacity in qualified waste reception facilities at 
ports internationally. we have mapped and vetted 
facilities to enable our vessels to plan around the 
gaps, but our operations would be more efficient 
with proper facilities available.
also affecting the health of oceans and 
biodiversity is how vessels handle ballast water.  
this is often added in one marine environment to  
keep the vessel stable and safe, and later discharged  
in another environment due to changes in cargo. 
this may result in invasive species disturbing local  
ecosystems. the ballast water management 
convention (bwmc) obligates shipowner to have 
ballast water systems installed on all vessels by 2024.  
we are progressing in accordance with our plan to 
comply with this demand. we saw no non-
compliances with existing regulation. all marine 
life from plankton to whales reacts to noise, and 
for this reason the increase in underwater noise 
from human activity is of growing concern. one 
example of this is how ship noise impacts and 
confuses the communication of an endangered 
species of orca whales. a positive bi-product of 
some of our energy efficiency retrofits of vessels  
is that the level of ship noise is lowered. we sail at 
slower speeds in areas where these whales have 
been identified. 
collaborating for ocean health
weather and sea state observations from vessels 
at sea provide data on meteorological conditions 
for weather forecasts, help climate scientists 
understand climate change, and help to protect 
life and property on vessels by allowing better 
forecasting of storms and other extreme ocean-
related events. in 2020, we agreed to commit our 
fleet of 300 owned vessels to be part of the global 
voluntary observing ship (vos) scheme, run by 
the world meteorological organization and the 
intergovernmental oceanographic commission of 
unesco. by mid-year 2021, we will have finalised 
installation of fully automated weather stations  
on 50 vessels.
we have also contributed to the un global 
compact's guidance for the shipping industry to 
support implementation of the sustainable ocean 
principles, which we participated in establishing  
in 2019.
this is the driver behind the 
imo's legislation on sox, 
which from 2020 requires 
the entire global fleet to sail 
on fuels with
the compliance measures 
approved by the imo are
enforcement of the 
legislation is critical. on 
just one voyage from asia 
to europe a large container 
vessel could save up to
13 https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-017-02774-9?utm_source=commission_junction&utm_medium=affiliate
38
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
39
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
responsible business practices
air emissions and ocean health 
anti-corruption
why is it important
corruption undermines social and economic 
development. it destabilises the business 
environment and adds to the cost of participating  
in global trade. it affects external confidence as well 
as company morale. non-compliance with legislation
on bribery and corruption may lead to legal and 
reputational risks, extra costs, inefficiencies in our 
business, fines, imprisonment and ultimately 
debarment from markets.
ambitions
we aim to eliminate corruption in the industries 
where we are active through both multistakeholder 
collaboration and actions in our own operations.
    
targets
comply with legislation on anti-corruption practices, 
which ultimately translates to zero bribery and 
elimination of facilitation payments.
progress in 2020
the risk of corruption in our ocean business relates 
primarily to interactions with authorities in ports and 
at border controls, and mostly as facilitation payments.  
in our terminals, the risk is greatest when negotiating 
government agreements on concessions. risks on land  
and in our supply chain are predominantly managed 
through our responsible procurement programme.
we work to combat bribery, fraud, kickbacks and 
preferential treatment by performing due diligence 
of agents, joint venture partners, key suppliers, and 
m&a targets prior to signing a contract or entering  
a new market. expectations to employees are 
outlined in the a.p. moller - maersk (maersk) code of 
conduct and the maersk anti-corruption policies and  
guidelines. we enforce rules on travel, meals, lodging, 
gifts, amenities and entertainment, and employees 
complete annual training on compliance. our current 
compliance programme is based on guidelines for 
complying with the us foreign corrupt practices act.
we work on projects focused on risk-based 
mitigation measures, e.g. in-person training, 
transaction testing, spot checks and appointment of 
business compliance ambassadors, strengthening 
our internal compliance controls framework as well 
as rolling out a conflict-of-interest policy. executive 
commitment through words and actions has helped 
set the tone for the rest of the company.
one top priority in 2020 was finalising the 
implementation of the maersk third-party management 
process, which in this structured form is a new
addition to our controls. read more about this in  
the side bar. 
in 2020, we registered five minor incidents of 
facilitation payments on own vessels, and reduced 
payments on chartered vessels by a further 39% 
compared to 2019. 
we are investigating how we will address 
facilitation payments in ports and in the inland 
logistics and are among other things conducting a 
pilot study in southeast asia to map and 
understand where the money originates and how it 
travels through systems and processes. we will be 
scaling up this project to develop a global  
approach to this issue, just as we will continue to 
collaborate with the maritime anti-corruption 
network on this and other projects. 
of the channels used for reporting, the 
whistleblower hotline was used in twelve instances 
to report on public sector corruption cases. so far, 
none of the cases have substantiated while three 
cases are still under investigation.
in december 2020, the brazilian authorities filed 
a civil lawsuit against a.p. moller - maersk a/s and 
other maersk group entities related to allegations 
that a third-party broker made improper payments 
in connection with certain tanker charter party 
agreements entered into with petrobras between 
2008 and 2010. we remain committed to 
cooperating with the authorities, but cannot 
publicly comment on ongoing litigation.
when third parties act  
on our behalf
working through third parties 
is a known corruption risk  
to our business. to improve 
risk mitigation, we have 
invested in a third-party 
management system, and 
in 2020 we developed and 
initiated the roll-out of a 
structured risk-based third-
party management process 
across maersk.
through this process, we 
select the third parties best 
suited for our business 
based on their competence, 
integrity, and other relevant 
capabilities. we also have a 
process for comprehensive 
due diligence on acquisition  
targets, joint venture partners  
and shareholders through 
which we reviewed 60 
potential partners in 2020, as 
well as created a process for 
timely and orderly integration 
of the acquired entity 
into existing compliance 
programme structures.
in the first year  
of operations,
1200
leaders and 
employees have 
been trained
250
third parties  
have been or are 
being processed
5
third-party 
engagements 
were avoided 
or stopped on 
ethical grounds
responsible tax
why is it important
well-functioning tax systems locally and internationally help finance 
education, infrastructure and other public services that support 
sustainable development, local societies, business and trade. 
we recognise the need for companies to support the local economies in 
which they do business.
ambitions
be a compliant and accountable taxpayer with responsible and 
transparent tax practices. 
    
targets
• ensure full compliance with tax regulations in all countries  
where we operate.
• continue to engage in dialogue with stakeholders on tax matters. 
• implement the b-team responsible tax principles with reporting  
for 2020.
progress in 2020
a.p. moller - maersk's (maersk) total tax charge in 2020 was 407 million 
usd, compared to 458 million in 2019. see the a.p. møller - mærsk a/s 
annual report 2020 for more details.
we continue our dialogue with stakeholders including the b team,  
learning and sharing best practices with other companies who have also 
endorsed the b team's tax principles.
we are in the process of updating the maersk tax principles, providing 
more relevant information to our stakeholders and explaining the different  
tax rules, under which maersk operates. in particular, how our shipping 
activities are taxed under the tonnage tax regime. this is a methodology 
using vessel tonnage to determine the taxable income on which corporate  
tax is paid. as a result, liner entities are not taxed on actual commercial 
profit or loss. as our business grows on land, more of our income will be 
taxed according to regular corporate tax rules and based on actual profit. 
as part of our updated maersk tax principles we will be disclosing tax 
payments, in accordance with the oecd country by country reporting 
(cbcr) principles, for the largest taxpaying countries per region. we have
chosen this disclosure approach to achieve the right balance between 
our support for additional transparency on corporate tax and ensuring 
the relevance of the disclosed information.
our updated maersk tax principles and cbcr tax payments will be 
available on the maersk.com website in q2 2021, when the 2020 cbcr 
tax numbers are available.
the eu list of noncooperative tax authorities for 2020 comprises  
twelve countries, of which maersk has activities in four: due to a prior 
year adjustment, in panama we paid usd 781,000 in taxes on a profit of 
usd 460,000, in the us virgin islands we paid usd 743,000 in taxes on a 
profit of usd 1,531,000 and in barbados we paid usd 15,000 in taxes on 
a profit of usd 477,000. we have very minor profits (less than usd 1,000) 
and tax payments in trinidad and tobago. 
in december 2020, as per the deadline for 2019 cbcr tax numbers, 
we disclosed full country by country reporting to the danish tax 
authorities in accordance with our legal obligations.
40
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
41
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
progress overview
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
responsible business practices
responsible business practices
anti-corruption and responsible tax
summary of targets and progress across all issues
issues
sustainable trade  
(p. 13)
decarbonising logistics  
(p. 16)
safety  
(p. 30)
responsible  
ship recycling (p. 32)
diversity and 
inclusion (p. 34)
employee relations 
(p. 36)
responsible 
procurement (p. 37)
air emissions  
(p. 38)
ocean health  
(incl. spills) (p. 39)
anti-corruption  
(p. 40)
responsible tax  
(p. 41)
disaster response  
(p. 25)
un sdg
8 . 2 
8 . 3 
8 . 5
9 . 3
12 . 3
17 . 10 
17 . 16
7 . 3
13 .1
17 . 16
8 . 8
8 . 8
14 . 1
17 . 16
5 . 1 
5 . 5
10 . 2 
10 . 3
8 . 5 
8 . 7 
8 . 8
16 . 3
12 . 6
3 . 9
14 . 1
3 . 9
14 . 1  
14 . 3
17 . 6
16 . 3 
16 . 5
17 . 16
16 . 6
17 . 1
17 . 6
ambition
ensure that trade serves as a 
positive contributor to global and 
local development and growth, with 
a particular focus on enhancing 
opportunities for small and  
medium-sized traders.
to take leadership in the 
decarbonisation of shipping  
and help our customers 
decarbonise their supply chains.
we want to protect our people, 
eliminate fatalities and severe 
injuries, enable maersk to be 
a preferred employer and 
to provide safe and resilient 
products and services to our 
customers.
to create opportunities for 
responsible ship recycling 
globally for the benefit of 
workers and the environment, 
as well as responsible yards and 
shipowners.
we aspire to create an 
inclusive culture where all 
employees can contribute 
to their fullest. in doing 
this, we will be in a prime 
position to attract people 
from the widest talent 
pool. 
all our employees will 
be treated fairly in a safe 
and healthy working 
environment, and we are 
committed to creating a 
working environment where 
each employee feels valued 
and can prosper.
manage the risk 
of supplier non-
compliance with our 
supplier code of 
conduct, to support 
our commercial 
ambitions of end-to-end 
sustainable product 
offerings. 
to continue to be an 
industry leader working 
towards reducing 
air emissions from 
international shipping, 
particularly in regard to  
sox and nox emissions.
we see ourselves as 
citizens of the oceans and 
we are committed to doing 
no harm while at the same 
time actively participating 
in restoring oceans' 
health and resilience and 
protecting animal habitats.
we aim to eliminate 
corruption in the industries 
where we are active through 
both multistakeholder 
collaboration and actions in 
our own operations. 
be a compliant and 
accountable taxpayer 
with responsible and 
transparent tax practices.
to follow our values and 
use our leverage and 
logistics capabilities to 
support response efforts 
in case of natural disasters 
and other emergencies. 
targets
by 2025: connect 50% of global 
containerised trade to digital solutions 
that reduce supply chain barriers. 
by 2025: help connect 100,000 small 
and medium-sized enterprises, including 
women-operated businesses, to 
international trade. 
by 2025: contribute to trade facilitation 
reforms in 30 developing countries.
contribute to halving food loss in 
logistics in support of sustainable 
development and growth of our cold 
chain business.
to have net zero co2 emissions 
from our own operations by 
2050, which includes having 
commercially viable, net zero 
vessels on the water by 2030.
to deliver a 60% relative reduction 
in co2 emissions by 2030 
compared to 2008 levels.
2020: top 300 leaders 
complete safety differently 
workshops; verification of 
critical controls; improved 
employee engagement.
2021: leading-indicator 
targets for building safety 
capacity are set for:
• learning team activity
• leadership gembas
• critical risk projects
2020: continue to invest in 
and work with selected yards 
in alang; develop the wider 
alang area; actively support and 
participate in the development 
of the ship recycling 
transparency initiative.
2021: create opportunities for 
responsible ship recycling of 
post-panamax ships globally; 
support yards globally to 
achieve eusrr-compliance; 
continue development of the 
wider alang area; actively 
support and participate in 
the development of the 
ship recycling transparency 
initiative.
3 women on the board 
of directors, if the board 
consists of less than 12 
members, and 4 women,  
if the board consists of  
12 or more members.
for senior management, 
we have targets for 
representation of women 
and nationalities  
(see p. 35).
2020: ensure compliance 
on global employee 
relations; improve 
employee relations maturity 
level in the business.
2021: ensure compliance 
on global employee 
relations; conduct 
bi-annual labour rights 
assessment; make 
employee engagement and 
workforce management 
integral to the development 
of end-to-end logistics; 
ensure that new ways of 
working are introduced 
responsibly.
2020: ensure 
purchasing activities 
align with rp 
requirements and close 
improvement plans; 
review programme to 
align with risk picture 
from expansion on 
land; participate in 
collaborative efforts 
focused on trucking.
2021: ensure 
purchasing aligned 
with rp requirements: 
expand scope of 
rp and strengthen 
post-sourcing follow-
up to strengthen 
sustainability in end-to-
end offerings; prepare 
for legislation on supply 
chain due diligence.
fully comply with 
regulatory demands to 
reduce air emissions 
impact and continue 
investing in maintaining 
and implementing 
solutions that will  
enable this.
actively engage at 
international and regional 
levels to secure a level 
playing field and high 
levels of enforcement  
of regulation across  
the industry. 
fully comply with rules  
and regulations to minimise 
negative impact on ocean 
health including waste 
management and ballast 
water systems.
continue collaboration  
with the ocean cleanup.
support ocean science 
research through data 
collection and partnerships.
zero uncontained oil spills 
above 10 m3.
comply with legislation on 
anti-corruption practices, 
which ultimately translates 
to zero bribery and 
elimination of facilitation 
payments.
ensure full compliance 
with tax regulations in 
all countries where we 
operate.
continue to engage 
in dialogue with 
stakeholders on tax 
matters.
implement the b 
team responsible tax 
principles with reporting 
for 2020.
participate, as part of the 
logistics emergency team 
(let), in filling operational 
gaps in case of complex 
emergencies and large-
scale natural disasters.
contribute in let 
preparedness activities.
progress 2020
tradelens integrated with over 220 
organisations, including ocean carriers 
and ports and terminals, resulting in 
access to half of the world's ocean 
container cargo. 
two pilots planned in multi-stakeholder 
project to automate advance sea cargo 
data for developing countries. 
over 4,000 active twill customers, 
and almost 1,700 participants in twill 
webinars and coaching programmes.
invested in 21 start-ups enabling trade 
for smes, reaching more than 15,000 
customers.
contributed to trade facilitation reforms 
in 10 countries. 
cold chain logistics business serving 
several hundred customers across 
nearly 50 countries.
based on a strategic review 
of global climate scenarios 
and transition pathways, 
decarbonisation was established 
as a strategic imperative for the 
company, and a dedicated function 
was created to accelerate progress. 
reduced co₂ emissions by 46.3% 
since 2008, with 2.5% achieved in 
2020. maersk eco delivery sales 
exceeded expectations.
continued research on priority 
future fuels (biodiesel, methanol, 
lignin fuels and ammonia) 
confirming that net-zero 
technologies are available.  
maersk will not use transition  
fuels (such as lng) but leapfrog  
to fully net-zero fuels.
worked with customers, partners 
and regulators to build the market, 
fuel supply chains and policy 
frameworks to support net-zero 
emissions shipping.
all targets affected by 
covid-19.
educated 80 company leaders 
on safety differently, and 
designed a new leadership 
programme for launch in 2021.
integrated collaborative 
approach to critical risk project 
management across the 
organisation and progressed 
on critical risk projects.
developed virtual delivery 
solution for learning teams,  
for roll-out in early 2021.
carried out annual global 
safety day under the theme 
'learning from each other'.
three vessels sent for rsrs-
compliant recycling to alang 
yards in india and one for 
eusrr- and rsrs-compliant 
recycling to an aliaga yard in 
turkey. for audit results,  
see p. 33.
continued advocacy in the eu  
to advance inclusion of 
compliant alang yards on the 
eu list, among other things 
through the results of an 
impact study of our activities 
in alang.
contributed data and 
information to the ship 
recycling transparency 
initiative.
continued support for medical 
outreach in wider alang 
including support for covid-19 
response in the community.
target for women on 
board of directors met. 
targets for management 
representation were  
not achieved. revised 
targets for 2021 and 
onwards will be launched 
later in 2021.
conducted psychological 
safety-webinars across 
the organisation.
work on unconscious bias 
continued. 
establishing inclusion 
networks covering our 
global organisation.
2020 saw our planned 
virtual pride celebrations 
move to a virtual platform.
built processes to ensure 
health and safety for 
employees despite 
covid-19.
progressed in enhanced 
management of risks in 
relation to third-party 
workers.
143 cases related to 
potential violation of 
hr-related laws, rules 
or company values were 
processed through our 
whistleblower system. 
17 of these cases were 
substantiated, 11 of which 
were related to the commit 
rule on global employee 
relations. 
audits and subsequent 
improvement plans 
affected by covid-19.
groundwork for 
integration of 
responsible procurement 
in end-to-end product 
offerings laid, focusing 
on third-party workers, 
minimum standards  
for truckers in the eu, 
and strengthening 
post-audit compliance 
in collaboration with 
local hsse functions. 
successfully 
implemented shift to 
low-sulphur fuels across 
our owned fleet. 
registered four  
non-compliances  
with international sulphur  
regulations caused by 
contamination in the oil 
supply chain or by  
human error.
sox emissions 
significantly reduced  
to approx. 102,000 
tonnes mainly as a  
result of the imo2020 
sulphur cap.
progressed in line with  
plans for compliance 
with imo ballast water 
management convention.
partnership with the ocean 
cleanup project extended 
to 2023.
supported science with 
commitment of our entire 
fleet of 300 owned vessels 
to be part of the global 
voluntary observing ship 
(vos) scheme to collect 
meteorological data at sea. 
two non-contained spills: 
one spill to land in our 
terminal business in the 
netherlands (19 m3) and 
one spill to water relating to 
maersk supply service and 
resulting from a mud spill 
(20.3 m3).
five minor facilitation 
payments on our own 
vessels in 2020 and a 
further 39% reduction of 
facilitation payments  
on chartered vessels  
since 2019.
finalised the 
implementation of 
the maersk third-party 
management process, 
including training of 1200 
employees, processing 
of 250 third parties and 
termination or avoidance of 
5 third party engagements.
12 cases related to  
public sector corruption 
processed through our 
whistleblower system  
of which none were 
substantiated. 
charge of 407 million 
usd for taxes. see the  
a.p. møller - mærsk a/s 
annual report 2020  
for more details on  
the annual tax charge. 
we are in process of 
updating the maersk tax 
principles.
complied with tax 
disclosure legislation, 
including cbcr reporting 
to authorities.
continued to prepare for 
alignment with b team  
tax principles.
contributed to supporting 
society in the fight against 
the covid-19 pandemic 
through donation of 
services and financial 
support, equal to 4.2 
million dollars.
through let, established 
cold chain for vaccine 
storage in south sudan.
governance
our commitments on trade are owned 
and driven though the relevant business 
areas and brands, including tradelens, 
twill, maersk growth, and cold chain 
logistics, and overseen by the executive 
leadership team.
decarbonisation steering 
commitee with executive 
membership.
governed through the commit 
rule on health, safety and 
environment (hse).
responsible ship recycling 
steering committee overseeing 
our responsible ship recycling 
standard.
our diversity & inclusion 
policy and targets 
are owned by hr and 
overseen by the executive 
leadership team.
governed through the 
commit rule on global 
employee relations.
governed through 
the commit rule 
on responsible 
procurement.
governed through the 
commit rule on health, 
safety and environment 
(hse).
governed through the 
commit rule on health, 
safety and environment 
(hse).
governed through  
the commit rule on  
anti-corruption.
governed through the 
maersk tax principles 
and overseen by the 
executive leadership 
team.
governed through internal 
sops and guidelines for 
let engagement and local 
donations. all covid-19 
donations coordinated by  
the crisis management team. 
this table provides an overview of our ambitions in the context of the un sustainable development 
goals, summary of targets and progress in 2020, and how the issues are governed.
42
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
43
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
data and assurance
responding to a pandemic
progress overview
summary of targets and progress across all issues
progress overview
 performance data
a.p. moller - maersk
continuing operations
discontinued operations
2020
2019
2018
2020
2019
2018
2020
2019
2018
social performance
social performance
our employees
our employees
number of employees (ftes)
83,624
86,279
85,689
83,624
83,512
82,806
-
2,767
2,883
fte data is taken from the audited 2020 annual report of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s where more information can be found.
women in leadership (% based on headcount)
28%
27%
25%
28%
27%
25%
-
-
10%
continued focus on our targets has helped us make a slight improvement in our leadership numbers for women and target nationalities. 
further comments on our performance on diversity and inclusion, along with our targets and performance on representation of women on the board of directors and 
representation of women and persons from countries that are not in the oecd high-income countries list, can be found on page 34-35.
gender – female/total (% based on headcount)
28%
28%
27%
28%
28%
27%
-
-
8%
target nationalities in leadership (% based on headcount)
40%
38%
37%
40%
38%
37%
-
-
12%
target nationalities/total (% based on headcount)
72%
71%
70%
72%
71%
70%
-
-
23%
fatalities (headcount)
1
5
7
1
5
7
-
-
0
one fatal accident relates to a subcontractor in the apapa terminal in nigeria (see more on p. 31). ltif is calculated as number of injuries relative to exposure hours. it has 
increased due to improved recording of injuries sustained by contractors in our inland logistics business area, while the exposure hours for contractors were not available.
lost-time injury frequency (based on exposure hours)
1.27
1.16
1.29
1.27
1.16
1.30
-
-
0.91
environmental performance
environmental performance
energy consumption
energy consumption
fuel oil (1,000 tonnes)
10,368
11,173
12,017
10,368
11,173
11,994
-
-
23
decrease is due to improved efficiency and strategic focus on decarbonisation. because of covid-19, fewer vessels were in operation with less cargo in q2 and q3 2020.
gas fuels (1,000 tonnes)
11
10
17
11
10
17
-
-
0
small increase in gas fuel consumption is mainly due to improved reporting in terminals.
other fuels (1,000 tonnes) – excluding biofuel
120
130
118
120
130
118
-
-
0
decrease is due to among others a change to reporting based on actual invoices rather than office standards. this is partly offset by an increase in air charter.
biofuels (1,000 tonnes)
32
8
-
32
8
-
-
-
-
increase in consumption of biofuels for the maersk eco delivery shipping service and for use in terminals.
renewable technologies (1,000 mwh)
66
-
-
66
-
-
-
-
-
consumption of renewable energy is reported separately for the first time in 2020. this is made possible due to improved reporting in terminals. 
electricity (1,000 mwh)
664
656
732
664
656
730
-
-
2
increase is mainly due to improved reporting based on actual invoices rather than office standards, offset by reductions due to reduced vessel calls and working from home.
energy consumption (total, tj)
432,767
463,815
498,209
432,767
463,815
497,233
-
-
976
decrease in total energy consumption is due to the decrease in fuel oil consumption.
greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (1,000 tonnes co2 eq)
greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
direct ghg emissions (scope 1 ghg protocol)
33,902
36,204
38,826
33,902
36,204
38,749
-
-
77
96% of our scope 1 emissions come from the operations of our fleet. decrease is due to improved efficiency and our strategic focus on decarbonisation.
indirect ghg emissions (scope 2 ghg protocol) – location-based
305
287
339
305
287
338
-
-
1
increase in indirect ghg emissions is due to increase in electricity consumption.
indirect ghg emissions (scope 2 ghg protocol) – marked-based
337
-
-
337
-
-
-
-
-
indirect ghg emissions are reported using the market-based method, in accordance with the ghg protocol for the first time in 2020.
value chain ghg emissions (scope 3 ghg protocol)
19,017
-
-
19,017
-
-
-
-
-
value chain ghg emissions are reported in accordance with the ghg protocol for the first time in 2020. see p. 22 for more information. 
relative co2 reduction (percentage vs 2008 baseline)
46.3%
44.9%
42.1%
46.3%
44.9%
42.1%
-
-
-
improvement in operational energy efficiency has been achieved through both technical and operational improvement initiatives
other air emissions
other air emissions
sox (1,000 tonnes)
102
569
615
102
569
615
-
-
0
sox is produced from the combustion of heavy fuel oil. decrease in sox emissions is due to the shift to low sulphur fuel and the use of scrubbers with regards to imo2020, 
as well as a decrease in fuel oil consumption.
nox (1,000 tonnes)
824
888
955
824
888
953
-
-
2
nox is produced from the reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the air during combustion of fuels. decrease in nox emissions is due to the decrease in fuel oil consumption.
other resource consumption
other resource consumption
waste (1,000 tonnes)
283
299
340
283
299
338
-
-
2
decrease is mainly due to an adjustment in vessel waste reporting and ongoing projects for reducing hazardous waste. 
water (1,000 m3)
1,736
1,696
2,256
1,736
1,696
2,244
-
-
12
increase is due to improved reporting and change to reporting based on actual invoices rather than office standards, offset by reductions due to working from home.
spills (hydrocarbon)
spills (hydrocarbon)
>10 m3 (number of spills)
2
0
0
2
0
0
-
-
0
two uncontained spills above the threshold of >10 m³. one spill to land in the maasvlakte 2 terminal (19 m3), and another spill to water in mss resulting from mud spill (20 m³)
economic performance (usd million)
economic performance
revenue
39,740
38,890
39,257
39,740
38,890
39,257
-
308
1,977
financial data is taken from the audited 2020 annual report of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s. note 2018 is presented as if ifrs 16 had been implemented in 2018,  
for comparison purposes
the annual accounts and independent auditors’ report can be found at http://investor.maersk.com/
ebitda (profit/loss before depreciation, etc.)
8,226
5,712
4,998
8,226
5,712
4,998
-
n/a
n/a
capex
1,322
2,035
3,219
1,322
2,035
3,219
-
n/a
n/a
tax for the year
407
458
398
407
458
398
-
0
247
see the sustainability accounting principles on p. 46-47 for more information on data definitions and scope.
   scope is limited to shipping operations. relative co reduction is measured using eeoi 
(energy efficiency operational indicator) as defined by imo in mepc.1/circ.684 and 
calculated as g co2/(ton x nm). in 2020 we improved the underlying methodology, resulting 
in a more exact calculation of historical performance. the data for 2019 and 2018 are 
restated to align with the updated methodology. 
  financial scope.
  operational scope.
   data from other sources than the financial and operational scoped data.  
data for 2019 and 2018 is restated to include maersk supply service.
   data from other sources, calculations based on analysis by external provider,  
and not in scope for pwc's review of this report. 
comments on 2020 performance data
44
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
45
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
responding to a pandemic
data and assurance
performance data
data and assurance
sustainability accounting principles
reporting framework
a.p. moller - maersk does not apply a specific 
overall reporting framework but uses the global 
reporting initiative’s (gri) g4 sustainability 
reporting guidelines as guidance to determine 
report content and quality in terms of materiality, 
stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, 
completeness, balance, comparability, accuracy, 
timeliness, clarity and reliability.
reporting period
our reporting covers the period from 1 january to 
31 december 2020.
controls
while data regarding number of employees, 
women in leadership, gender and target 
nationalities are generated from our hr systems, 
data regarding accidents, fatalities, exposure hours, 
energy consumption, waste, water and spills are 
reported through our consolidated reporting tool 
based on submitted data from all reporting 
entities within a.p. moller - maersk. this tool is 
validated via internal audit, with manuals and 
online training in place. a set of generally accepted 
accounting principles for sustainability has been 
established, which defines the reporting rules, 
processes and responsibilities. a controlling 
guideline has been distributed to help secure the 
businesses' own assurance of submitted data, 
before sign-off by the respective ceos and cfos. 
furthermore, all businesses are obliged to provide 
explanation sheets on significant data developments. 
the data reported under financial scope is included in 
the framework used to assure risks and controls for 
financial reporting (danish statements act §107b, 
section 1, no 6).
scope
operational scope is applied for safety and 
spills data when a.p. moller - maersk or one of 
its subsidiaries has the governing authority and 
responsibility for health, safety and environmental 
management of the people, processes and 
facility – either directly or indirectly via third-party 
contractual arrangements. this approach excludes 
data from assets that are partly owned by  
a.p. moller - maersk but operated by another 
company. mobile assets are included when 
operated by a.p. moller - maersk. for vessels, the 
international safety management code document 
of compliance must be held by a.p. moller - maersk 
to include the data.
financial scope is applied for all other 
sustainability data, and is defined as follows:
• owned assets and leased in assets that  
a.p. moller - maersk uses: a.p. moller - maersk 
is liable for consumption, emissions and other 
environmental elements
• owned assets that are leased out:  
a.p. moller - maersk is not liable for consumption,  
emissions and other environmental elements – 
the lessee is.
technical management of an asset on behalf of 
third parties does not change the responsibility. 
thus, consumption and emissions still belong to 
the asset owner/lessee who uses the asset.
with regard to greenhouse gases, the reporting 
must be in accordance with the ghg protocol: 
direct emissions from own assets (scope 1), indirect 
emissions from purchased electricity and district 
heating (scope 2), and value chain emissions across 
material categories (scope 3). 
diversity and inclusion data includes all brands, 
global service centres, corporate functions, and 
boards. joint ventures are out of scope. gender 
and nationality data, which includes women 
in leadership, gender – female/total, target 
nationalities in leadership, target nationalities/
total, is reported by headcount and extracted  
from sap hr along with manual inputs of data  
not recorded in sap hr.
comparability
in line with the business strategy and organizational 
integration of a.p. moller - maersk, we report on 
sustainability performance as one maersk. for 
maersk drilling and maersk oil sustainability data 
is not included in the year of separation from a.p. 
moller - maersk, while economic performance 
data is included up to the data of the demerger/
sale. acquired and merged entities are excluded 
from sustainability reporting until the following 
reporting year.
consolidation
for operational scope, 100% of the data reported  
from the operated assets is included irrespective  
of percentage ownership. financial scope uses 
our financial consolidation methodology; data 
is collected per legal entity per activity, and the 
figures are consolidated line-by-line. subsidiaries 
in which a.p. moller - maersk has full control are 
included 100%. joint ventures and associated 
companies and other companies, in which  
a.p. moller - maersk does not have control, 
are excluded. using financial consolidation 
principles allows us to compare sustainability 
indicators directly with financial data, thereby 
providing context for our performance.
data categories and accuracy
a.p. moller - maersk has defined two categories of 
data: documented and probable data:
• documented data comprises: our employees 
(fte), energy consumption, air emissions, 
transport work (for eeoi), and financial data
• probable data comprises: safety (fatalities and 
ltif), waste, water, spills, gender and nationality.
documented data (financial and non-financial) is 
valid and complete and is essentially at the same 
quality level.
the reliability of probable data is somewhat 
lower but is still provided to the best of the 
management’s knowledge. it is based on data 
received and controlled in the consolidated 
reporting tool, but with an inherent risk of being 
incomplete.
financially scoped probable data (water 
and waste) must always be defendable, and 
if assumptions are necessary due to lack of 
documentation, then the assumptions made 
must be verifiable. if no evidence exists, then 
assumptions based on the probable data must 
be made in writing and shall be verified by the 
reviewer, whereby the data are always defendable.
operationally scoped probable data (safety and 
spills data), along with gender and nationality, has 
the weakest data quality, as it is not possible to 
ensure validity and completeness.
emission conversions and calculations 
ghg emissions are calculated indirectly via default 
conversion factors for energy consumption and 
other ghg gases.
primary schemes used are api (updated 2009), 
defra (updated 2020) and iea (updated 2020). 
the principles for choosing among the schemes for 
default conversion factors are:
• newest schemes are preferred, as are 
internationally recognised generic schemes
• a scheme must always be used in full.  
thus, no combined schemes are allowed unless 
specific elements were not included  
in the primary scheme
• specific industry schemes can be included when 
not in conflict with the above.
we report on relative co₂ emissions reduction 
using eeoi (energy efficiency operational indicator) 
methodology. eeoi is defined by imo in mepc.1/
circ.684 and is calculated as gco₂/(ton cargo x nm).
in practice we calculate eeoi on voyage level and 
aggregate it in the following way:
sea/truck/ rail). this means that e.g. trucking only 
includes carrier haulage. category 11 - use of 
sold products, which is reported based on sale of 
used containers and vessel recycling. the method 
includes splitting the product into waste categories 
and waste treatment type based on category  
and region. 
when preparing our scope 3 emissions in the 
material categories listed above, we have provided 
procurement and accounting data to an external 
service provider, which has then applied our data 
in their model for calculating related carbon 
emissions. the scope 3 emissions data returned to 
us by the external service provider have then been 
entered into our reporting. the scope 3 emissions 
stated have not been subject to review by our 
assurance provider pwc.
for categories 1 and 2 data for maersk supply 
service is not included due to data compatibility. 
category 4 excludes when customers arrange their 
own transport as no data in this case is available 
for maersk to reasonably accurately calculate 
scope 3 impact.
definitions:
• number of employees is the average number of 
full-time equivalents (ftes). ftes are calculated 
based on the total number of compensable 
hours (days) in a work year compared to the 
number of hours (days) in a ‘norm’ work year. 
excluded are employees on unpaid leave, 
contractors and temporary staff.
• headcounts are defined as regular employees  
not on leave, on paid leave and on unpaid leave.  
excluded are contractors and temporary staff.
• women in leadership is the percentage of 
women in level 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, corresponding to 
senior managers, leaders, senior leaders, and 
executives, compared to total headcount of the 
same levels.
• gender – female over total is the percentage of 
women employed based on headcount.
• target nationalities in leadership is the 
percentage of leaders with non-high-income 
oecd nationalities in level 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, 
corresponding to senior managers, leaders, 
senior leaders, and executives, compared to 
total headcount of the same levels.
• fatalities is the headcount number of accidents  
leading to the death of the employee.
• ltif (lost-time injury frequency) measures 
the number of lost-time injuries per million 
exposure hours. lost-time injuries (lti) is the 
sum of fatalities, permanent total disability 
(ptd), permanent partial disability (pdd) and 
lost work day case (lwc). a lost workday case 
(lwc) is any work-related injury, other than 
a fatal injury, which results in a person being 
unfit for work on any day or shift after the 
day of occurrence of the occupational injury. 
permanent partial disability (pdd) is any work 
injury which results in the complete loss, or 
permanent loss of use, of any member or part 
of the body, or any impairment of functions of 
parts of the body, regardless of any pre-existing 
disability of the injured member or impaired 
body function. permanent total disability 
(ptd) is any work injury which incapacitates 
an employee permanently and results in 
termination of employment on medical grounds. 
excluded from ltis are suicide or attempted 
suicide, criminal or terrorist activity, and 
incidents which occur off the ship but where the  
consequences appear onboard at some later time.
• energy consumption encompasses fuel oil, gas 
fuels, other fuels (diesel, gasoline, kerosene, 
and heating oil), and biofuel as well as the 
consumption of electricity / district heating and 
renewable energy. 
• renewable technologies, from which energy is  
derived to use for electricity or heating, include 
solar panels, wind turbines, biomass and batteries.
• direct ghg (scope 1) is the sum of all six kyoto 
gasses converted to co₂ equivalents. kyoto 
gasses comprise: co₂, ch₄, and n₂o, which 
are calculated based on fuel consumption/
combustion, and hfc, sf₆, nf₃ and hcfc, which 
are based on direct consumption.
• indirect ghg (scope 2) is the co₂ equivalents’ 
converted sum of co₂, ch₄ and n₂o, calculated 
on consumed electricity and district heating 
bought from a third party. scope 2 emissions are 
reported using location-based emission factors, 
and using market-based factors (see 'emissions 
conversions and calculations').
• value chain ghg (scope 3) is calculated on 
procurement and accounting data and covers all 
six main greenhouse gases.
• other air emissions include sox and nox, which 
both are calculated based on fuels consumed 
multiplied by generally accepted conversion 
factors for the respective fuels. in case of 
scrubber use, sox emissions are reported based 
on clean cargo guidelines, where sox output is 
assumed to be maximum for the operating area 
in which the vessel spends 80% of time.
• amount of waste is the sum of all waste  
types generated.
• amount of water is the sum of all water 
consumed, excluding ballast water and water  
for re-injection.
• uncontained spills over 10 m3 are defined as 
any type of spills of hydrocarbon liquids greater 
than ten m³, resulting from any unintended, 
irreversible release associated with current 
operations.
• to secure completeness, office standards have 
been developed based on 2020 data, which 
can be used for offices with no production or 
warehousing, etc. these standards are only to  
be used if other more accurate information is 
not available.
the data sources are:
1. g co₂ – based on fuel consumption, from 
departure voyage 1, to departure voyage 2, 
multiplied with relevant co₂ factor (3.114 for 
hfo, 3.206 for mdo).
2. ton cargo – calculated via draft and 
displacement tables, subtracting vessel weight 
and ballast water and fuel stock.
3. nm – gps distance from departure voyage 1,  
to departure voyage 2.
in 2020, the baseline for eeoi has been 
recalculated to include missing data points for 
historical performance.
from 2020, scope 2 emissions are reported in 
two ways: location-based and market-based. for 
the latter, market-based factors are used for eu 
countries and the u.s. while iea factors are used 
for other countries.
from 2020, scope 3 emissions are reported in 
accordance with the ghg protocol. of the 15  
scope 3 categories in the protocol only nine 
categories are deemed relevant for our business  
activities. the excluded categories, cat. 8 upstream  
leased assets, cat. 9 downstream transportation 
and distribution, cat. 10 processing of sold 
products, cat. 13 downstream leased assets, 
cat. 14 franchises and cat 15 investment, were 
determined not to have significant relevance 
to maersk’s business model. from a reporting 
perspective we have furthermore decided to apply  
a materiality threshold of 1% of the total scope 3  
emissions which excludes the following categories 
from reporting: cat 5. waste generated in operations, 
cat. 6 business travel, cat. 7 employee commuting, 
and cat. 12 end of life treatment of sold products. 
scope 3 reporting thus comprises five remaining 
categories: cat. 1 - purchased goods and services, 
which is reported based on procurement data 
and includes opex goods. cat. 2 - capital goods, 
which is reported based on procurement data 
and includes our capital investments such as e.g. 
retrofit of vessels and dry docking. we include 
the full scope 3 impact the first year of a capex 
investment. category 3 - fuel and energy related 
activities, which is reported based on actual fuel 
procured and consumed. category 4 - upstream 
transportation and distribution, which is reported 
based on procurement data multiplied by relevant 
emission factor per transportation category (air/
(g co2 voy1 + g co2 voy2 + g co2 voy3)
((ton cargo x nm)voy 1+ (ton cargo x nm)voy 2+ (ton cargo x nm)voy 3)
46
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
47
introduction
strategic sustainability priorities
responsible business practices
progress overview
responding to a pandemic
sustainability accounting principles
data and assurance
data and assurance
5
0
4
1
 
p
r
i
n
t
e
d
m
a
t
t
e
r
 
0
4
5
7
 
rosendahls
independent assurance report
stay up to date
we value your feedback
overview of brands that are part of a.p. moller - maersk
news and reporting
we welcome any questions, comments or 
suggestions you might have to this report  
and our performance. please send your 
feedback to:
a.p. moller - maersk
esplanaden 50
1098 copenhagen k
denmark
attn: sustainability
you can also send an email to:
sustainability@maersk.com
https://www.maersk.com/about/sustainability
print
printed in denmark in 2021 by
rosendahls, an environmentally certified
printing agency, on arctic matt.
editor
lene bjørn serpa
project manager
julia hoffmeister
reporting coordinator
angelika toh
writer
eva harpøth skjoldborg
creative editor
erickson enriquez
design and layout
spring production
photographs
cover photo: dean martindale  
p. 12: gettyimages 
p. 16: tom lindboe  
p. 23: nick souza 
p. 25, 28: gruvpix inc. 
p. 34: brian doyle
additional cop content can be found on  
our website: https://www.maersk.com/about/
sustainability
maersk.com
https://www.maersk.com/press
investor.maersk.com
https://www.maersk.com/about/sustainability
online
engage with us
        linkedin.com/company/479080/
        twitter.com/maersk
        instagram.com/maersk_official
        facebook.com/maersk 
        youtube.com/maersk
to the stakeholders of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s
a. p. møller - mærsk a/s engaged us to provide limited 
assurance on the performance data stated on page 
44 in the sustainability report of a.p. møller - mærsk 
a/s for the period january 1 – 31 december 2020 (the 
"performance data").
our conclusion
based on the procedures we performed and the 
evidence we obtained, nothing came to our attention 
that causes us not to believe that the performance 
data in the a.p. møller - mærsk a/s sustainability report  
are free of material misstatements and prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the sustainability 
accounting principles as stated on pages 46-47  
(the *sustainability accounting principles”).
this conclusion is to be read in the context of what 
we state in the remainder of our report.
what we are assuring 
the scope of our work was limited to assurance over 
performance data as stated on page 44 in the  
a.p. møller - mærsk a/s sustainability report 2020. 
scope 3 carbon emissions have not been in scope for 
our review of the 2020 performance data.
professional standards applied  
and level of assurance
we performed a limited assurance engagement in 
accordance with international standard on assurance 
engagements 3000 (revised) ‘assurance engagements 
other than audits and reviews of historical financial 
information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse gas 
emissions, in accordance with international standard 
on assurance engagements 3410 “assurance 
engagements on greenhouse gas statements”. 
greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent 
uncertainty because of incomplete scientific 
knowledge used to determine emissions factors and 
the values needed to combine emissions of different 
gases. a limited assurance engagement is substantially 
less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement 
in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, 
including an understanding of internal control, and 
the procedures performed in response to the assessed 
risks; consequently, the level of assurance obtained in 
a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower 
than the assurance that would have been obtained had  
a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
our independence and quality control
we have complied with the code of ethics for 
professional accountants issued by the international 
ethics standards board for accountants, which includes  
independence and other ethical requirements founded  
on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, confidentiality 
and professional behaviour. the firm applies 
international standard on quality control 1 and 
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of  
quality control including documented policies and  
procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements. our work was carried  
out by an independent multidisciplinary team with 
experience in sustainability reporting and assurance.
understanding reporting and  
measurement methodologies
the performance data need to be read and understood  
together with the sustainability accounting principles 
on pages 46-47, which management are solely 
responsible for selecting and applying. the absence  
of a significant body of established practice on which 
to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial 
information allows for different, but acceptable, 
measurement techniques and can affect comparability 
between entities and over time. 
work performed
we are required to plan and perform our work in 
order to consider the risk of material misstatement of 
the performance data. in doing so and based on our 
professional judgement, we:
• conducted interviews with management at 
corporate and brand level responsible for the 
sustainability strategy, management and reporting;
• performed an assessment of materiality and the 
selection of topics for the sustainability report and 
comparison to the results of a media search;
• read and evaluated reporting guidelines and 
internal control procedures at corporate level and 
reporting entity level regarding the performance 
data to be consolidated in the 2020 sustainability 
report;
• conducted analytical review of the data and trend 
explanations submitted by all reporting entities to 
a.p. moller – maersk accounting & controlling for 
consolidation; and
• evaluated evidence.
statement on other sustainability information 
mentioned in the report
management of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s is responsible 
for other sustainability information communicated in 
the 2020 sustainability report. the other sustainability 
information on pages 4-43 of the sustainability 
report comprises the sections introduction, strategic 
sustainability priorities, responding to a pandemic, 
responsible business practices and progress overview 
regarding a.p. møller - mærsk a/s’ 2020 sustainability 
approach, activities and results.
our conclusion on the performance data on page 
44 does not cover other sustainability information and 
we do not express an assurance conclusion thereon. 
in connection with our review of the performance 
data, we read the other sustainability information 
in the 2020 a.p. møller - mærsk a/s sustainability 
report and, in doing so, considered whether the other 
sustainability information is materially inconsistent 
with the performance data or our knowledge obtained 
in the review or otherwise appear to be materially 
misstated. we have nothing to report in this regard.
management’s responsibilities
management of a.p. møller - mærsk a/s is  
responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal 
control over information relevant to the preparation 
of the performance data and information in the 
sustainability report that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
• establishing objective sustainability accounting 
principles for preparing performance data; and
• measuring and reporting the performance 
data in the sustainability report based on the 
sustainability accounting principles.
our responsibility
we are responsible for:
• planning and performing the engagement to obtain 
limited assurance about whether the performance 
data for the period 1 january – 31 december 2020 
are free from material misstatements and are 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the sustainability accounting principles;
• forming an independent conclusion, based on  
the procedures performed and the evidence 
obtained; and
• reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders of  
a.p. møller - mærsk a/s.
copenhagen, 10 february 2021
pricewaterhousecoopers
statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab 
cvr no. 3377 1231
mogens nørgaard mogensen
state authorised public accountant
mne21404
lars baungaard
state authorised public accountant
mne23331
48
a.p. moller - maersk      sustainability report 2020
independent assurance report
data and assurance
