 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 3 
ceo statement   
strategy & governance 
who we are and where we are  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 10 
providing high quality healthcare products 
ethical clinical- and animal trials 
ethical marketing promotion 
cybersecurity  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 16   
carbon emissions & climate change 
developing sustainable products 
plastic 
water management 
waste management 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 28  
social capital management 
working towards diversity & equality 
ensuring a safe and healthy workplace for our employees  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
page 35 
business ethics & compliance 
protection of human and labour rights 
responsible supplier management 
transparent tax management 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 42 
performance data table  
sustainability & esg data collection 
accounting practices 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
independent auditor’s limited assurance report   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this report constitutes ambu’s compliance with the statutory disclosure on corporate social responsibility pursuant to section 99 a 
and data ethics pursuant to section 99 d of the danish financial statements act. report on the gender composition of management 
and the board of directors (members elected at the annual general meeting), pursuant to section 99 b, and diversity pursuant to 
section 107 d of the danish financial statements act can be found in the annual report. 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
ambu’s  primary obligation is to improve patient care 
by bringing innovative devices to healthcare 
professionals. in this process, we are obliged to act 
responsibly towards our colleagues, our business 
partners and the planet on which we all live. 
 
in the past year, we have made progress in several 
areas of sustainability and corporate responsibility. 
parallel with our efforts to reduce carbon emissions, 
we have expanded our data to cover all of our scope 
1 and scope 2 emissions. we have also committed 
to aligning our carbon emission target with the 
ambitious 1.5˚c climate goal of the paris agreement.  
 
we believe that this is the best way to ensure that 
the goals we strive for are meaningful and have the 
most impact. 
 
we have started our journey on the use of renewable 
electricity and have gone from zero to 4% solar 
generation of our global electricity consumption. 
people are the most important element of our 
business, and any results we achieve are due to the 
focused efforts of talented people. during the past 
year, we have significantly increased the number of 
female executives at top management level, we have 
reduced the frequency of work-
related 
injuries 
and 
we have 
conducted 
and 
documented 
internal training in our code of 
conduct for 99.7% of ambu’s 
employees. 
 
integrity is one of our three 
company values and an essential 
part of ambu’s dna. this is 
apparent from our work processes 
and the devices that we supply to 
hospitals and patients. 
 
we have many ongoing activities – 
some of which you can read about 
in this report – and we continue to advance our 
efforts as a responsible company. 
 
i hereby confirm our commitment to the ten principles 
of the un global compact as we disclose our 
progress on sustainability. 
 
 
juan jose gonzalez 
ceo 
 
 |   
 
 
5 
 
one of the four pillars in our strategy is to ‘grow 
sustainably for our people and our planet’, which is 
closely aligned with our company values ‘results 
with speed’, ‘collaboration’ and ‘integrity’. against 
this background we are moving forward with our 
efforts within sustainability and esg (environmental, 
social and corporate governance). 
 
the rationale behind our sustainability & esg efforts 
is to act responsibly. based on our materiality 
assessment (found on ambu.com), we group our 
efforts under four headlines: 
 
• 
product governance 
• 
environment and climate 
• 
social capital 
• 
business ethics and compliance 
 
product governance, product quality and safety, is 
the 
foundation 
for 
our 
license 
to 
operate. 
environment and climate is how we act responsibly 
in our own operations. social capital is how we 
engage with employees to succeed and deliver on 
our strategy. business ethics and compliance 
concerns how we must conduct our business to 
maintain our licence to operate and safeguard our 
business. 
 
our aspiration is to be recognised as a sustainable 
and responsible company in external ratings such as 
cdp, msci & sustainalytics. we are continuously 
developing our sustainability & esg strategy 
accordingly.  
ambu is in ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders via 
different channels throughout the year.  
 
we are witnessing an increasing focus on 
environmental, social and corporate governance-
related topics among our stakeholders, and in 
particular from our investors. in 2021, we improved 
our ratings in both sustainalytics and msci, and 
reported into cdp for the first time. we will continue 
to work on improving our performance and engage 
in dialogue with stakeholders on how we manage 
esg at ambu. 
 
the sustainability & esg committee consists of 
executive vice presidents and vice presidents 
representing 
finance, 
innovation, 
global 
operations, sales, marketing and human resources 
as well as our corporate business ethics & 
compliance director. the committee meets with the 
director of esg once a month to make sure that 
material sustainability & esg issues, activities and 
targets are anchored and executed across ambu’s 
functions and operations. our ceo and cfo 
approve policies, reporting and selected processes. 
 
sustainability & esg activities, target and milestone 
setting, action plans and data registration and 
collection are anchored in the respective business 
areas in which they originate, with the sustainability 
& 
esg 
committee 
member 
holding 
overall 
responsibility. the esg department facilitates and 
coordinates all corporate sustainability & esg 
activities to ensure compliance and adherence to 
legislation, 
commitments 
and 
stakeholder 
expectations  
 |   
 
 
6 
 
our targets and activities are directly linked to our 
contribution to the sdg’s. 
 
sdg 3 good health and well-being and 
sdg 8 decent work and economic growth 
in general, ambu products contribute to sdg 3 
“ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all” 
by the nature of our products as medical devices. in 
2019/20, we completed our efforts to phase out 
harmful phthalates from our products and we 
continued 
our 
long-term 
efforts 
to 
evaluate 
substances in our products on the basis of their 
ability to ensure good product performance, as well 
as being as harmless as possible to living 
organisms. 
 
ambu’s contribution to sdg 8 “promote sustained, 
inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent work for all” is 
directly linked to our company growth ambitions and 
strategy to grow sustainably for our people and our 
planet.  
 
sdg 7 affordable and clean energy, sdg 12 
responsible consumption and production and 
sdg 13 climate action 
through our energy efficiency activities and our 
engagement with sbti we will increase our demand 
for renewable electricity and thereby support sdg 7 
“ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable 
and modern energy for all” and sdg 13 “take urgent 
action to combat climate change and its impacts.” 
 
we contribute to sdg 12 “ensure sustainable 
consumption and production patterns” by monitoring 
and reducing energy and water consumption, as well 
as by minimising waste and focusing on sustainable 
procurement. 
 
sdg 5 gender equality  
ambu has adopted the united nations women’s 
empowerment principles (weps) as part of our 
commitment to promote gender equality and 
women’s empowerment in the workplace. together 
with our current activities, training, and development 
of our people leaders in diversity and inclusion to 
ensure equal opportunities for men and women and 
equality at ambu, we contribute to sdg 5 “achieve 
gender equality and empower all women and girls.” 
transparency is very important to us and we believe 
in the value of working to improve our reporting on 
sustainability & esg indicators as we mature in this 
area. we are thus engaged in the continuous 
process of establishing and improving our five-year 
overview of a range of indicators. for some of the 
indicators we have high-quality data and five years 
of history are available, while for other indicators the 
available data only goes back one or a few years. we 
will work continuously to develop and improve the 
quality of sustainability & esg, and by obtaining the 
limited assurance of our sustainability report this 
year, we are moving forward. 
 
achieving limited assurance of our sustainability & 
esg data provides evidence to our stakeholders that 
our data is correct, complete and trustworthy. during 
the process we have provided documentation for 
data, statements and stories, and proved that our 
reporting processes are reliable, strong and 
repeatable, to ensure data quality at any given time. 
the independent assurance statement by ey can be 
found on page 49. 
importance to stakeholders 
 |   
 
 
7 
 
 
ambu develops, produces and sells medical devices to hospitals, clinics and rescue services all over the world.  
 
we are committed to reducing our negative impact throughout our value chain from raw material extraction and 
sourcing to production and distribution up until usage and waste management of our products.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ballerup, denmark 
ambu was founded in denmark in 1937 by holger 
hesse. 
from 
the 
very 
beginning, 
ambu’s 
headquarters have been located in denmark and 
since 2001, in ballerup, outside copenhagen. the 
headquarters are now the workplace of 567 
employees and have been expanded several times 
to make space for ambu’s rapid people growth. on 
the roof, solar panels contribute 2% of the electricity 
needed. the office receives district heating from a 
major power plant only 6 km away. 
 
penang, malaysia 
the production site in penang, malaysia was 
established in 1995. it is the largest of the three 
ambu sites, with 1,845 employees. the site is 
powered by electricity and since september 2020, 
part of the electricity consumption comes from onsite 
solar panels, which cover 10% of the electricity used. 
the site specialises in producing our endoscope 
portfolio, as well as electrodes for the patient 
monitoring & diagnostics portfolio.  
 
   
 
 |   
 |   
 
 
8 
 
xiamen, china 
in 2000, ambu started production in xiamen, china. 
the site specialises in the production of plastic 
products specifically for our emergency care and 
anaesthesia division. the site is not the largest in 
terms of size or number of employees, but produces 
the highest tonnage of products. the site is solely 
powered by electricity.    
 
noblesville, usa 
in 2013, ambu acquired the company king systems, 
including the production site in noblesville, usa. the 
site produces many of the medical devices from the 
former king systems product portfolio including 
circuit systems. the site is powered by electricity, but 
also has high consumption of natural gas that is 
needed to run specialised equipment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
offices, warehouses and company cars 
as this is the first year in which ambu discloses energy 
consumption at offices and warehouses, an introduction 
is appropriate. we have a total of 11 sales offices located 
on four continents, and the total footprint amounts to 
approximately 6,000 m2. 
 
in augsburg, germany, we have an innovation hub 
where many of our future healthcare devices are 
developed. 
 
finally, we have two warehouses located in australia 
and germany, respectively. 
 
globally, we have approximately 450 company cars.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 |   
 
 
9 
 
juarez, mexico 
a considerable element of the environmental impact 
of a building lies in the decisions made during the 
design phase. it has therefore been a priority for 
ambu to set high ambitions for the environmental 
impact of the upcoming production site in juarez, 
mexico. ambu has set the target to design the new 
production site so that the facility can attain silver 
certification by the leed rating system. 
 
what has this meant for the design?  
in the leed rating system for the building design and 
construction stage, points can be achieved by 
making concrete design choices. for the facility in 
mexico, we have chosen to focus on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
energy 
• 
exterior areas 
• 
water 
• 
materials 
 
 
we 
have 
focused 
on 
energy-efficient 
utility 
equipment and lighting, as well as glazing on 
windows and insulation of walls and roof to minimise 
the need for cooling. in the exterior areas, there will 
only be native vegetation that does not require an 
irrigation system, while in the parking area there will 
be dedicated spaces for green vehicles. most water 
consumption is for hygiene purposes, by the 
employees onsite. focus will therefore be on 
installing faucets, wcs and urinals with optimised 
water usage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
based on current calculations, we anticipate 40% 
water savings compared to local standards. there 
has been focus on choosing materials with an 
environmental product declaration and the use of 
low-emission materials with a low content of volatile 
organic compounds, such as paint. recycling has 
also been in focus during the construction phase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 |   
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
as a producer of medical devices used by hospitals, 
clinics and rescue services all over the world, ambu has 
a great impact on people’s health and safety through our 
products. during the covid-19 pandemic the impact and 
importance of single-use endoscopes has become more 
evident, since these devices ensure that every patient is 
treated with a sterile device based on the latest 
technology, and that the devices are readily available 
with a minimum of logistic effort. 
 
ambu must demonstrate excellence 
within product governance, and 
ensure 
that 
our 
products 
and 
processes live up to all applicable 
external regulatory requirements and are safe and 
effective. this is why ambu has a global quality 
management system to manage the quality and risk of 
ambu’s products and processes 
 
 
at ambu, we take great pride in our products which 
contribute to improving the health and well-being of 
people all over the world. upholding quality standards in 
our systems, processes and products is our licence to 
operate as a medical device manufacturer.  
 
why it is important  
as a provider of medical devices, it is important that our 
customers can rely on ambu’s products fulfilling 
applicable regulations and quality standards. maintaning 
a high quality level is not only important for bringing our 
products to market, but also because it is the right thing 
to do, since many people around the world rely on our 
products to ensure patient health and safety. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our quality policy applies to all employees and sets out 
our commitment to maintain the highest level of quality in 
our solutions and to comply with allapplicable regulatory 
requirements. our ambition is to have zero fda warning 
letters and zero recalls. if we do receive fda warning 
letters, or if it becomes necessary to recall products, we 
will disclose the reason(s) together with preventive and 
corrective actions. 
 
 
how we work with it  
the ambu quality management system covers all 
aspects of our operations including management 
responsibilities, design control, risk management, 
process and production controls as well as product 
surveillance, and ensures that ambu complies with all 
applicable regulatory requirements and that our 
quality management system certifications are 
maintained accordingly. 
 
product quality 
quarterly meetings are held in the global quality 
management review committee. the purpose is to 
periodically review the suitability, adequacy and 
effectiveness of the quality management system. 
the review includes assessment of opportunities for 
improvement and any need for changes to the quality 
management system to ensure the satisfactory 
performance according to applicable regulatory 
requirements and defined quality policy and quality 
objectives. 
participants 
in 
global 
quality 
management reviews are members of ambu’s 
executive leadership team, quality management 
representatives and other key persons. at least the 
local quality management representative and one 
additional member of the local top management for 
the sites covered in the review must be present. 
3.4 
3.6 
3.8 
3.9 
 |   
ambu’s quality management system is certified according to iso 13485, medical device 
single audit program (mdsap*), the eu medical device regulation (eu mdr) and iso 9001** 
* mdsap certification covers the requirements of the fda, the japanese ministry of health, australia tga, health canada and brazil anvisa 
** iso 9001 is only applicable to our xiamen site and for training devices 
12 
 
management reviews are held with each local quality 
and 
management 
representative 
before 
each 
quarterly global management meeting. 
 
product safety 
 
at ambu, we do our outmost to limit the incidence of 
product safety concerns and recalls, in order to 
ensure the health and safety of patients who are 
treated with ambu medical devices. 
 
product performance in the market is continuously 
monitored 
through 
post-market 
surveillance 
processes. this monitoring may lead to the 
conclusion that products already distributed have 
quality defects that could potentially affect the safety 
of patients or users. ambu will then initiate voluntary 
product recall to remove products from the market.  
 
targets and progress 
there were no fda warning letters and no recalls 
initiated in 2020/21. recalls are defined as action 
taken to remove a product from the market for which 
it has been concluded that it could potentially affect 
the safety of patients or users. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the scope of disclosure includes recalls associated 
with all devices manufactured by ambu or by its 
subsidiaries. 
 
 
why it is important  
for ambu as a medical device manufacturer, animal 
testing and clinical trials are an important part of 
bringing products to the market. depending on the 
required 
outcome, 
clinical 
trials 
can 
involve 
manikins, cadavers, animals or humans. the type of 
trial, the need for testing, and the potential outcome 
of the trial are all factors which need to be carefully 
considered to ensure the right testing at the right time 
during the lifetime of a product. 
 
our policies and ambitions  
our policy on animal testing and clinical trials 
provides guidance on the ethical aspects of animal 
testing and clinical trials. 
 
how we work with it  
prior to initiation of animal testing and all clinical 
trials, the rationale for the need to test must be 
reviewed and approved by ambu’s internal ethics 
committee. the need for animal testing to fulfil 
biosafety purposes is described stringently in the 
legislation, and these studies are not subject to 
approval by the ethics committee. animal testing for 
design validation, or similar, and clinical trials must 
therefore be assessed before initiation. clinical trials 
are also subject to approval by the local health 
authorities and/or local ethics committee/internal 
review boards (irbs).  
 
 
 |   
13 
 
animal testing  
animal testing is a standard method for documenting 
the safety of medical devices. animal testing, in-vitro 
studies, chemical characterisation studies and other 
chemical 
tests 
are 
performed 
to 
support 
biocompatibility, pre-clinical safety and regulatory 
submissions. 
other chemical tests beyond the aforementioned 
purposes are also performed upon customer 
request. the purpose of the animal testing studies is 
to predict local acute tissue reactions, acute 
systemic reactions and/or tissue or skin sensitisation 
caused by the device.  
 
the animal tests determine the potential of the 
device to cause irritation and sensitisation – these 
animal tests are mandatory to support product safety 
and obtain regulatory approvals.  
 
ambu is committed to only use animal testing when 
necessary to fulfil our ethical and legal obligations.  
 
this means that ambu will reduce, refine and replace 
animal studies used for biocompatibility testing 
without compromising patient safety and regulatory 
requirements. 
 
when animal testing is required, we follow all 
applicable laws and regulations. all animal testing 
used by ambu is performed by good laboratory 
practice (glp)-certified laboratories, and according 
to current iso standards – en iso 10993-5:2009 
and en iso 10993-10:2010. ambu does not use 
transgenic animals in testing. 
during 2020/21, 189 biosafety studies and 5 design 
validation studies were completed, distributed as 
54% in-vitro studies, 38% chemical characterisation 
studies and 8% animal testing studies.  
 
168 animals were used in animal testing studies, 
distributed as 83% rodents (mice, rats and guinea 
pigs) and 17% other animals (rabbits, dogs and 
pigs). 
 
due to end-of-shelf-life biocompatibility demands for 
compliance with eu mdr, an extraordinary number 
of in-vitro cytotoxicity studies were conducted in 
2020/21. in-vitro cytotoxicity studies were also 
conducted as an alternative to animal testing. 
 
animal testing is still a requirement made by the fda 
in the usa, as the fda does not recognise in-vitro 
irritation testing as an alternative to animal testing. it 
will therefore not yet be possible for ambu to 
substitute animal trials with in-vitro irritation 
even though the new iso 10993-22:2021 
allows for the substitution of animal testing with 
in-vitro irritation testing. 
 
the number of chemical characterisation studies 
was extraordinarily high in 2020/21. this is due to 
the implementation of the new iso 18562 standard 
series: biocompatibility evaluation of breathing gas 
pathways in healthcare applications. additionally, 
chemical characterisation analyses have been 
applied to reduce the number of animal tests. 
 
 
 
 |   
14 
 
clinical trials 
all ambu clinical trials are conducted in accordance 
with 
our 
ethical 
principles 
and 
international 
standards including good clinical practice (gcp) 
and the world medical association declaration of 
helsinki (doh). our guidelines apply to all ambu 
clinical trials at all locations, irrespective of whether 
they are conducted by ambu or on our behalf by 
external contract research organisations (cros). 
we do not conduct clinical trials in countries where 
we do not intend to pursue registration and make the 
product available for use, unless there is a strong 
scientific justification that does not violate our ethical 
principles. 
 
all clinical trials, both completed and terminated, are 
registered at clinicaltrials.gov and published within 
12 months from the last patient primary endpoint, 
according to clinicaltrials.gov publication principles. 
 
during 2020/21, two clinical trials were completed, 
one was terminated due to lack of recruitment. 
terminated tirals are defined by ambu as trials 
terminated prior to planned completion. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
why it is important 
in our industry, interaction and collaboration with 
healthcare professionals are often required, to 
ensure safe and efficient devices that meet the 
needs of the market. being directly or indirectly 
involved in unethical marketing practices can 
damage a company’s brand reputation and also 
result in fines and penalties.  
 
our policies and ambitions 
it is ambu’s policy to maintain the highest ethical 
standards and to comply with all applicable laws, 
rules, regulations and local customary practices. the 
ambu code of conduct for our employees, as well 
as for our business partners, sets out the minimum 
standards for ethical behaviour and for acceptable 
behaviour when interacting with customers.  
 
how we work with it 
ethical marketing promotion risks are identified as 
part of our risk assessment framework for enterprise 
risks, and compliance procedures, as well as 
approval of marketing material, are being integrated 
into our internal quality management system. to 
further increase awareness and ensure alignment in 
our interactions with our customers and key opinion 
leaders in the industry, we have developed training 
and guidelines for interactions with healthcare 
professionals, to help our sales and marketing 
colleagues in their daily work. internal monitoring, as 
well as our whistleblower hotline, help us detect and 
investigate incidences of non-compliance. 
 
while we rely on the advice and consultation with our 
stakeholders when developing a product, ambu has 
an ethical responsibility to ensure that this is not 
perceived as an improper inducement for positive 
evaluation and promotion of our product. to mitigate 
the risk of improper inducement and conflicts of 
interest, we do our utmost to ensure openness and 
transparency 
and 
to 
protect 
the 
healthcare 
professionals with whom we interact. 
 
targets and progress 
during 2020/21, we rolled out an online training 
course in our code of conduct for all our white-collar 
and indirect blue-collar employees to increase 
general awareness of our rules and guidelines for 
ethical business conduct. with a 99.7% completion 
rate we are very satisfied. 
 
in 2021/22, we will initiate targeted training in ethical 
marketing promotion for sales and marketing 
colleagues in selected countries. 
 
 
 |   
15 
 
 
 
why it is important 
cybersecurity is critical for us as a company to stay 
in operation, safeguard and manage our data, and 
protect our intellectual property rights. cybersecurity 
measures are laid down to avoid business disruption, 
and that information is lost, stolen or otherwise 
released into the hands of people for whom it was 
never intended.  
 
our policies and ambitions 
our policies and guidelines ensure order, rules and 
structure to underpin the link between our asset 
management, our resilience and our operating 
model. in addition, they ensure our adherence to and 
compliance with all relevant regulation, e.g. the iso 
13485 standard, the eu general data protection 
regulation (gdpr) and section 99d of the danish 
financial statements act.  
 
how we work with it 
ambu is continuously improving its measures to 
monitor and respond to potential data breaches and 
cyberattacks. our cybersecurity efforts are aligned 
with the national institute of standards and 
technology cyber security framework (nist csf) 
and builds on technical, as well as human 
behavioural, measures.  
 
on a regular basis, we conduct both internal and 
external 
security 
assessments, 
including 
vulnerability assessments, penetration testing and 
threat hunting. 
 
to ensure the cybersecurity of our endoscopy 
monitors, we continuously scan for errors or 
weaknesses that need to be addressed. most errors 
and weaknesses are found to be irrelevant as the 
monitors are closed to incoming connections and the 
application level is isolated from the linux os. the 
monitors do not contain sensitive patient information 
and therefore do not pose a risk of leaking sensitive 
information. 
 
targets and progress 
during 2020/21, we improved cybersecurity further 
on two parameters:  
• 
on the technical side, we continued our efforts 
to upgrade our hardware and software, and  to 
improve our system architecture in line with 
good industry practices. most recently, we have 
strengthened our monitoring and data breach 
response capabilities via an external expert 
partnership. 
• 
on the human behavioural side, we are working 
to further increase the mandatory cybersecurity 
training for all employees in 2021/22. 
 
 
 |   
16 
 
17 
 
 
changing from a linear economy to a circular 
economy is of utmost importance, since earth 
overshoot day, the date when humanity’s demand 
for ecological resources and services in a given year 
exceeds what earth can regenerate in that year, 
occurs earlier and earlier each year. changing the 
linear economy for medical devices to a circular 
economy requires several different long-term efforts 
at different lifecycle stages. as ambu products are 
not considered to consume water or energy during 
use, the relevant focus areas are innovation, 
production and end of life. 
 
innovation 
to deliver on our commitment to develop sustainable 
products we have integrated a circular innovation 
programme to ensure that all new products are as 
sustainable as the current state of technology, 
knowledge and pricing allows. in our product 
innovation process, we prioritise new products over 
products in the market, since almost every change, 
how small and sustainable it may be, must be 
assessed and approved by the licensing authorities, 
making it very time- and cost-consuming to introduce 
changes. 
 
production 
during production, we monitor and have activities 
focused on reducing energy and water consumption, 
as well as reducing and upcycling 
waste, where possible. we have 
taken on a climate responsibility 
by committing to setting carbon 
emission targets aligned with the 
science based targets initiative. 
 
end of life 
the waste hierarchy is universal: 
reuse, recycle, waste to energy, 
incineration and landfill, but end-
of-life 
scenarios 
for 
ambu 
products (and own waste) depend 
on the national, regional or 
multinational regulation. there 
are multiple challenges related to 
recycling plastic that has been in 
contact with bodily fluids, due to 
the risk of infection 
 
at ambu, we want to challenge the current means of 
disposal, to promote the recycling of plastic from 
single-use medical devices by interacting with 
multiple stakeholders, participating in research 
projects and undertaking our own pilot projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
why it is important 
the latest ipcc report leaves little doubt about the 
link between the emission of greenhouse gasses and 
climate change. the report also underlines the 
urgency of immediate action to keep temperature 
rises below 1.5ºc, to avoid serious negative 
repercussions for life on earth. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our sustainability engagement policy sets the 
direction for how we work with sustainability at ambu, 
as we strive to minimise our climate and 
environmental footprint and decouple this from our 
growth. our ambition is to reduce our scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions by 50% in 2024/25, compared to 
2018/19 as the baseline year.  
 
 
 
how we work with it  
in august 2021, we committed to setting carbon 
emission reduction targets in line with the science 
based target initiative (sbti). despite the projected 
growth of ambu as a company, we need to reduce 
our emissions compared to the status quo. 
consequently, in the coming years we must 
decouple our growth from our carbon emissions.  
 
targets and progress 
we want to reduce 50% of our carbon emissions in 
2025 compared to our 2018/19 baseline. 
 
we continuously monitor our energy use and are 
engaged in improving the energy efficiency of each 
site.  
7.2 
7.3 
7.b 
12.2 
12.4 
12.5 
12.6 
12.7 
12.8 
13.1 
13.2 
 |   
18 
 
in the previous years, we reported our scope 2 
emissions using the location-based method. from 
this year, we also report our scope 2 emissions using 
the market-based method. in order to compare the 
development of our scope 2 emissions with 2019/20, 
all emissions mentioned in this section are calculated 
using the location-based method. 
 
during 2020/21, we expanded the data collection 
process in order to get a full picture of our scope 1 
and 2 emissions. in 2019/20, we disclosed emissions 
from all of our production sites and our headquarters.  
 
in 2020/21 we also disclose:  
• 
electricity used in all ambu-leased international 
offices and warehouses 
• 
fuel consumption in all global leased and 
owned company cars 
• 
fugitive emissions from the leakage of 
refrigerants at our production sites and 
headquarters 
 
see the ‘included emission sources’ table to see the 
expansion of scope in recent years.  
 
 
scope 1 are direct ghg emissions occurring from activities under our direct control in sources that are owned or controlled by ambu. 
they include emissions from ambu company cars, emissions from fuel used at our production sites and fugitive emissions which occur 
from leakage of cooling agents in air-conditioning units. 
 
scope 2 are indirect ghg emissions caused by the energy we purchase such as electricity and district heating. 
 
scope 3 are indirect ghg emissions – not included in scope 2 – that occur in our value chain, including both upstream and 
downstream emissions. currently we do not report on any scope 3 categories. 
 
 
 |   
19 
 
to enable comparison over the last three years, the 
new emission sources have been summed together 
and visualised in light blue on top of how emissions 
were calculated in the previous years. 
  
 
 
disregarding the new emission sources, ambu’s 
scope 1+2 emissions have decreased by 5% 
compared to 2019/20. the biggest decrease in 
emissions is seen in electricity, where we see a 
decrease of around 1,000 tonnes of co2 primarily 
due to the electricity generated by our solar panels 
in penang, which have produced 1,510 mwh and 
thereby saved 800 tonnes of co2 from being emitted. 
 
the three new emission sources included in 2020/21 
have a total carbon emission of 4,113 tonnes of co2. 
this is equivalent to 18% of the total carbon 
emissions in 2020/21.  
 
our scope 1+2 emissions for 2020/21 come to a total 
of 22,356 tonnes of co2e. even though this is 
significantly higher than 2019/20 and our base year, 
2018/19, it is primarily due to the expansion of scope 
described above.  
 
looking at the overall carbon emissions, it is evident 
that the majority, 81%, come from our production.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for this reason, external energy consultants have 
performed energy audits at our three production sites 
to 
gain 
a 
better 
understanding 
of 
energy 
consumption and energy efficiency initiatives. 
 
a barrier to energy efficiency improvements at ambu 
is that our processes and machinery are part of 
validated processes. producing medical devices 
requires manufacturing processes to be approved by 
global health authorities, such as the fda. any 
changes in validated processes must be considered 
carefully, made with caution, and planned with 
respect for continuous production, as our first priority 
is to provide high-quality healthcare products for our 
customers and their patients. 
 
to gain a more nuanced perspective on our 
emissions, we use two metrics for carbon intensity: 
• 
co2 by tonne of manufactured product 
• 
co2 by revenue. 
 
with the inclusion of new sources of carbon 
emissions, it is difficult to perform a fair comparison 
with last year’s carbon intensity metric. we therefore 
exempt the new emission sources when comparing 
performance as follows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when disregarding the new emission sources, the 
intensity metric of co2 per tonne manufactured is 
1.75, which is an 8% decrease compared to 2019/20. 
the decrease is attributable to an increase of 3.5% 
in our production yield and a decrease in carbon 
emissions from production sites and headquarters. 
 
 
 |   
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disregarding the new emissions, the intensity metric 
of co2 by revenue is 4.55, which is a 16% decrease 
compared to 2019/20. the decrease is attributable to 
decreased carbon emissions from production sites 
and headquarters together with a 13% increase in 
revenue.  
 
renewable energy  
since september 2020, the solar panels at our 
production site in penang, have supplied renewable 
energy to the site. this is the first full year in which 
the panels have been in operation and we can see 
the full environmental benefit. the solar panels at our 
production site in penang, have generated 1,510 
mwh renewable energy, equivalent to 10% of the 
electricity used on-site. 
 
the electricity produced from the solar panels at our 
headquarters in ballerup and at our production site 
in penang totalled 1,528 mwh, accounting for 4% of 
our total electricity consumption at our headquarters, 
production sites, offices and warehouses. 
 
science based target initiative 
in august 2021, we signed a letter of commitment to 
the science based target initiative which commits 
ambu to set carbon emission targets to meet the 
goals of the paris agreement. we will convert our 
existing carbon emission target of a “50% reduction 
of carbon emissions in 2025 compared to 2018/19 
baseline” to be in line with the guidance from sbti.  
 
we have chosen to sign up for the most ambitious 
target of a 1.5°c science-based reduction. in other 
words, as a company we will have to reduce carbon 
emissions 
across 
our 
entire 
value 
chain, 
corresponding to what is needed to limit a global 
temperature rise to 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels. 
 
we will employ a three-step strategy to reduce our 
co2 emissions: 
1. 
minimise carbon emissions from production 
sites through energy efficiency measures. 
2. 
purchase 
renewable 
energy 
certificates 
(recs) with focus on new installations and 
suppliers who offer a degree of additionality. 
additionality ensures expansion of renewable 
energy production sites. 
3. 
establish power purchase agreements (ppas) 
in the countries where we have production 
facilities, in order to ensure additionality and the 
expansion of renewable energy production. 
 
we aim to be able to submit and have our targets 
validated and accepted by the sbti in 2021/22. 
 |   
21 
 
climate-related financial disclosures  
the task force on climate-related financial 
disclosures (tcfd) provides recommendations on 
what companies should disclose about the potential 
financial impacts that can be caused by climate 
change. the recommendations are focused on four 
core areas and include how organisations operate 
within governance, strategy and risk management, 
and climate metrics and targets. 
 
in 2021, ambu submitted the climate change 
questionnaire to cdp for the first time. the table 
below provides a summary of key messages in 
accordance 
with 
the tcfd from 
our 2021 
submission. 
 
during 2021/22 we will explore our options for further 
tcfd-aligned disclosure. 
 
 
 
 
governance 
strategy 
risk management 
metrics and targets 
 
the executive management 
holds the overall responsibility 
for climate-related issues and 
the board of directors 
oversees that all relevant 
procedures and commitments 
are in place. climate-related 
issues that require the 
attention of the board are 
presented, reviewed and 
approved as part of board 
meetings. climate data is 
reviewed on a yearly basis as 
part of the annual reporting 
process. climate-related 
targets are set, and activities 
are monitored by the board. 
 
to support the board, our 
sustainability & esg 
committee meets monthly to 
ensure that sustainability & 
esg activities and targets are 
anchored and deployed across 
ambu’s functions and 
operations. 
 
the ceo and cfo approve 
policies, reporting and 
selected processes.  
 
in 2020/21, the board 
supported the proposal to sign 
up to the business ambition 
for 1.5ºc campaign led by the 
science based targets 
initiative in partnership with the 
united nations global 
compact and we mean 
business. 
 
the audit committee (board) 
and the risk board* assist the 
board in overseeing ambu’s 
management of enterprise 
risks as well as the 
implementation of policies and 
standards for monitoring and 
mitigating such risks. 
 
 
sustainability is anchored as 
one of the four pillars in our 
strategy: grow sustainably, for 
our people and our planet. we 
will continue to work on 
integrating climate change risk 
scenarios into our processes 
and frameworks for 
governance, strategy and risk 
management. 
 
we experience an increasing 
interest in sustainability from 
customers and investors, and 
while we continue our 
endeavours to advocate 
single-use products in order to 
stop cross-contamination of 
patients, our aim to become 
the world's most innovative 
single-use medtech company 
comes with a responsibility to 
design medical devices with 
minimal environmental and 
climate impacts. 
 
being able to identify climate-
related risks is an important 
element in strategy and 
planning, as the occurrence of 
flooding or typhoons has the 
potential to shut down our 
operations. extreme weather 
conditions also pose a risk to 
our suppliers and our value 
chain. identifying and 
mitigating these risks is 
therefore an ongoing process 
and important to ensuring 
business continuity. 
 
climate-related risks are 
identified as part of our risk 
management process and are 
assessed and responded to 
according to a standardised 
process for estimating the 
impact and likelihood of risks 
in view of their impact on 
revenue, cost and reputation 
as well as the related 
compliance requirements. 
 
all risks are captured and 
classified as either low, 
medium or high risks. each 
business division within ambu 
is responsible for identifying 
and prioritising relevant 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities and integrating 
them into relevant processes 
to ensure that they are 
managed appropriately. risks 
identified as medium or high 
are presented and discussed 
every three months by our 
risk board. the most material 
or high-level risks are 
presented and discussed at 
audit committee (board) 
meetings every three months. 
 
we will continue to work on 
strengthening our risk 
management process for 
climate-related risks even 
further, including by 
developing climate change risk 
scenarios to help us assess 
potential  future risks and 
ensure business continuity. 
 
you can read more about risk 
management on page 31 in 
our annual report. 
 
ambu has a target of reducing 
our scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by 50% by 2025 compared to 
our baseline year 2018/19.  
 
in order to strengthen our 
carbon reduction commitment, 
ambu has signed up to the 
science based targets 
initiative (sbti) and will 
transform our carbon reduction 
target into science-based 
targets. 
 
 
*consisting of global leaders within 
the operations, commercial and 
headquarter organisations in ambu. 
 |   
22 
 
 
why it is important 
every day, ambu manufactures tonnes of products 
at our production sites. the products have an impact 
throughout their lifecycle – from raw material 
extraction until they are disposed of after use. the 
choices we make when designing new products not 
only affect our own operations, but also our suppliers 
and customers. at ambu, we are therefore focused 
on improving the sustainability of our products, to 
minimise the impact on the environment and, if 
possible, contribute to the circular economy. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our sustainability engagement policy sets the 
direction for how we work with sustainability at ambu. 
 
how we work with it  
in 2019/20, we kickstarted our circular approach to 
product design. a circular design guide was 
developed and introduced which sets out six 
principles to support the innovation projects towards 
more sustainable processes and outcomes. during 
2020/21, we developed a training session for the 
guide, and some of our innovation employees have 
taken this training session. 
 
during 2020/21, the main focus has been on 
understanding our products from a sustainability 
perspective. we have therefore completed a flow 
analysis of the materials used in our products. the 
analysis includes sustainability indicators such as 
recycled content and ability to recycle. this work will 
make it possible to take more informed decisions on 
how to make future innovation more sustainable.  
 
going forward, sustainability must be an integral part 
of the innovation process and we have therefore 
established a governance model. at the start of a 
project, the project manager must set ambitions for 
one or more of the six circular design focus areas. in 
2021/22, we aim to include a sustainability 
professional in the concept phase, to provide 
knowledge and ideas to spark innovation. our 
ambition to develop more sustainable products also 
requires new competences and we have therefore 
hired a materials specialist who will focus on 
investigating the area of green materials.  
 
targets & progress 
we have two targets within sustainable product 
development: 
• 
95% of new products released after 2025 to be 
pvc-free. 
• 
100% recyclable, reusable or compostable 
packaging by 2025, if a suitable solution and/or 
technology exists. 
 
95% of new products released after 2025 to be pvc 
free  
this target is part of a strategic objective to phase 
out substances of concern from our new products. 
substances of concern can cause harm throughout 
the materials value chain, and for pvc our aim is to 
ensure that our products will not create toxic 
chemicals if incinerated after use. 
 
to achieve this target, we have a three-step process:  
1. 
pvc-free solutions will be anchored in all 
modules/functional teams. 
2. 
all projects must set an ambition for healthy 
substances, where pvc is on the “not-preferred” 
list of materials.  
3. 
if a project cannot eliminate pvc, a rationale 
must be approved by the sponsor team or gate 
team. 
 
during 2020/21, we launched two new products, of 
which one product is pvc-free. we define a new 
product launch as when a product has obtained its 
first market clearance. we also exclude products if 
they are line extension products, software updates, 
sustaining activities or minor change projects.  
 
 |   
23 
 
2025 target: packaging 
at ambu, packaging is used to ensure that our 
products are transported safely to the customer with 
no risk of being damaged on the way. in view of the 
large amount of packaging that is used and 
eventually becomes waste, we have set the target of 
100% 
recyclable, 
reusable 
or 
compostable 
packaging by 2025, if a suitable solution and/or 
technology exists. 
 
during 2020/21, we laid the foundation for further 
advances to reach the target. the first step was to 
gain a full overview of the packaging used at ambu. 
we collected data from our three production sites in 
a comprehensive data-gathering process. for each 
variant of packaging, we gathered weight, material 
and 
whether 
it 
is 
recyclable, 
reusable 
or 
compostable. packaging used to send ambu 
products from contract manufacturers was not 
included in the initial baseline work. 
 
the mapping provided an insight on how far we have 
come in reaching our 2025 target. a total of 654 
packaging variants were used in 2018/19. 
of these, it was possible to acquire sales and weight 
data for 502 packaging variants, corresponding to 
77%. on solely considering fully mapped packaging 
variants in terms of weight shipped, we see that 78% 
of shipped packaging is recyclable.  
 
our non-recyclable pouch packaging is included in 
the packaging variants that are not fully mapped. as 
pouches account for a large share of our total 
packaging use, we expect the percentage of 
recyclable packaging to decline as we achieve full 
mapping. 
 
during 2021/22, we will complete our work on the 
packaging baseline mapping. an analysis based on 
the initial screening of recyclability has shown that 
some variants have existing alternatives which are 
recyclable, reusable or compostable. for other 
variants, we have categorised them as hotspot 
packaging, as no alternative currently exists. these 
packaging variants will require a more focused effort 
before they can be recycled, reused or composted.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 |   
24 
 
 
 
 
plastics are a wide range of synthetic or semi-
synthetic materials that use polymers as a main 
ingredient. the plasticity makes it possible for 
plastics to be moulded, extruded or pressed into solid 
objects of various shapes, thereby resulting in 
various uses. 
 
a lot of attention is paid to single-use plastics, 
primarily due to the eu directive that is tackling the 
ten most commonly found single-use plastic items on 
europe’s 
beaches. 
medical 
devices 
are not 
comprised by the directive as they are not commonly 
found on beaches. medical devices are used in a 
controlled environment; a hospital or clinic, where 
waste is handled properly and according to 
relevant regulation. 
 
why it is important 
plastic is a fantastic material to use in 
medical devices as it is easy to work with, 
both during production and use. it is flexible, 
soft, lightweight, durable, impermeable, can 
be transparent, and has low thermal and 
electrical conductivity.  
 
the flexibility of a medical device made from 
plastic ensures that the medical device 
adapts to the human anatomy in a way that 
is gentle on the patient. there are currently 
no sustainable substitutes for plastic in 
medical devices. 
 
plastic is made from crude oil; a fossil and non-
renewable resource that releases co2 when 
incinerated. plastic should therefore ideally be 
recycled to avoid the release of co2 and preserve 
the material for further use. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our sustainability engagement policy sets the 
direction for how we work with sustainability at ambu 
as we strive to minimise our climate and 
environmental footprint and decouple this from our 
growth. our ambition is to contribute to the circular 
economy and the development towards recycling of 
medical devices. 
 
how we work with it  
our plastic strategy concerns the following short-
term, mid-term and long-term activities: 
1. 
partnership with plastic bank® to collect 
ocean-bound plastic waste, incentivise 
recycling of plastic and improve the lives of 
vulnerable coastal communities. 
2. 
implement initiatives to reduce waste from 
ambu products by prioritising reduction of 
unnecessary materials and reduction of 
material in general. 
3. 
working towards opportunities to recycle ambu 
scopes to ensure the circularity of the product 
materials and keep them in the global 
manufacturing supply chain. 
targets and progress 
our initiatives and projects focus on mitigating and/or 
reducing the impact of our products on the global 
climate and environment.  
 
at ambu, we are determined to find solutions for 
take-back and recycling in our key regional markets.  
 
the reality is, however, that throughout the world 
hospital waste in general is regulated to minimise the 
risk of infection among waste-handlers. in the eu, for 
example, medical devices which come in contact 
with bodily fluids must be handled as hazardous 
waste, and the waste directive states that it must be 
burned. this regulation is understandable in view of 
the risk of spreading infection, but is a major barrier 
to the recycling of the high-quality materials from 
which medical devices are made. 
 
despite the regulatory challenges, we are committed 
to investigating this further and to findind out whether 
it is possible to make a safe take-back and recycling 
system.  
 
during 2020/21, we took various initiatives to mature 
the idea of take-back and recycling. we performed a 
recyclability analysis of our ascope 4 broncho. this 
study showed that, in theory, this single-use 
endoscope 
can 
be 
safely 
collected 
and 
disassembled, and that more than 85% of its weight 
can be recycled. in order to ensure economic 
feasibility and environmental impact mitigation, a 
financial and environmental business case must be 
developed in 2021/22.  
 
 |   
25 
 
furthermore, 
four 
employees 
based 
at 
our 
headquarters in ballerup participated in the un 
global 
compact 
young 
sdg 
innovators 
programme.  
 
during the programme, our participants conducted 
research 
to 
understand 
the 
challenges 
and 
opportunities for recycling of medical devices and 
came up with a proposal for a business plan. we will 
continue to work with the area internally, to test the 
possibilities 
and 
integrate 
them 
into 
current 
processes.  
  
take-back system 
while we work towards recycling, we also strive to 
get our products away from landfills and towards 
“waste to energy” incineration that can turn our 
products from waste to energy, thereby taking a step 
up the waste hierarchy. 
 
in the us, we have partnered with sharps 
compliance, who facilitate collection containers for 
ambu’s single-use scopes and all items necessary to 
properly package containers for dot (department of 
transportation) compliant shipping. upon receipt, 
sharps compliance ensures that electronics are 
recovered and processed by certified recyclers. 
plastics are treated in the sharps compliance 
patented waste conversion process, to generate 
electricity. 
 
in 2020/21, the ambu endoscopes collected by 
sharps generated 12 mwh of electricity. this is 
equivalent 
to 
the 
annual 
average 
energy 
consumption of almost eight persons. through the 
sharps partnership, we have collected 2.4% of the 
endoscopes we sold in the us during 2020/21.  
 
plastic bank 
in march 2021, we entered into a partnership with 
plastic bank. the purpose of the partnership is to 
offset the amount of  plastic used in the 
ambu endoscopes sold in europe, the 
middle east, africa (emea) and latin 
america, and to prevent 100 tonnes of 
plastic from entering the oceans. the 
partnership encourages collectors in 
coastal communities of the philippines 
and indonesia to gather the plastic waste 
which would otherwise end up in the 
ocean. the collectors receive a premium 
for the materials they collect, which helps 
them provide basic family needs such as 
food, health insurance and education. 
 
operation clean sweep 
as our product portfolio production 
requires significant amounts of plastic, 
we recognise our responsibility to ensure 
a proper and careful handling of the 
plastic pellets used in production. for this 
reason, ambu has now become an 
official partner of the operation clean 
sweep initiative. committing to the operation clean 
sweep programme enables ambu to be accountable 
and provides the necessary tools and processes to 
fulfil our responsibility.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 |   
26 
 
 
why it is important 
water is a critical resource for life on earth and as 
water scarcity becomes more widespread, it is 
important that everyone does their part to limit their 
water consumption.    
 
our policies and ambitions 
our sustainability engagement policy sets the 
direction for how we work with sustainability at ambu 
as 
we 
seek 
to 
minimise 
our 
climate 
and 
environmental footprint and decouple this from our 
growth. our ambition is to monitor and reduce our 
water consumption where possible.  
 
how we work with it  
ambu production is not water-intensive, yet we still 
want to ensure sustainable water management at 
our production sites, where we monitor water 
consumption and continuously assess the potential 
for reduction at our three production sites and our 
headquarters. 
 
targets and progress 
in 2020/21, we experienced an increase of 11% in 
water usage at our three production sites and 
headquarters. three sites have experienced this 
increase and the reason is a mix of additional 
employees and an increase in production and output.  
 
what does the data tell us? 
both in penang and xiamen we experienced an 
increase in water consumption. for the two sites 
combined we saw a 16% increase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
water is used for hygiene reasons and consumption 
is therefore related to the number of employees. in 
combination, these two sites experienced a 10% 
increase in headcount, which explains the increase 
in water use. 
 
in xiamen, we  have focused on optimising water 
use. all toilets will have water tanks installed that will 
save 0.5 litres of water per flush. all faucets will have 
sensors installed that will save around 0.1 litres of 
water per use. for both projects, around 60% of 
installations have been replaced and we expect this 
to be reflected in the water consumption data for 
2021/22.   
 
in 
both 
xiamen 
and 
penang, 
leakages 
in 
underground water pipes have been detected. in 
xiamen, part of the leakage is in the common pipes 
in the free trade zone area which is outside our 
control, but it has been possible to negotiate for this 
leakage to be fixed. in penang, we are also actively 
working on mitigating leakages. 
 
at the production site in noblesville, a new closed-
loop water system was installed and activated in the 
summer of 2019/20. now, a year later, it is possible 
to observe a decrease in water usage in noblesville 
of 1,079 m3, equivalent to a 4% decrease even 
though a production increase was observed in the 
same period, with production to run 24/7. 
 
 
why it is important 
at ambu, we believe waste is a resource for which 
no application has yet been found. the amount of 
waste is a direct reflection of what we have not been 
able to use. we are therefore focused on minimising 
the amount of waste we create and upcycling the 
waste we do create, in order to minimise use of virgin 
resources and thereby reduce our impact on the 
environment and climate. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our sustainability engagement policy sets the 
direction for how we work with sustainability at ambu, 
as we strive to minimise our climate and 
environmental footprint and decouple this from our 
growth. 
 
how we work with it  
we monitor the amount of waste at our three 
production sites and at our headquarters. our 
ambition is to reduce waste where possible and to 
upcycle our waste according to the waste hierarchy: 
reuse, recycle, waste to energy, incineration and 
landfill. by measuring waste amounts, each site 
gains a better understanding of the waste streams 
and upcycling possibilities.  
 |   
 
27 
 
 
targets and progress 
we continuously monitor and work to reduce the 
amount of waste at our sites, while continuing to 
upcycle the waste which occurs. 
 
during 2020/21, we continued our work to ensure the 
accuracy and completeness of our waste data, and 
also continued the roll-out of a clear definition of 
waste, waste categories and waste handling 
methods. in 2020/21, we established a process at 
our site in xiamen to capture data for non-production 
waste that is disposed of in the local, commonly 
available containers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
what does the data tell us? 
in 2020/21, there was a total of 2,429 tonnes of 
waste at our three production sites and our 
headquarters in ballerup. this is a 7% increase 
compared to 2019/20. in xiamen the amount of 
waste increased by 66 tonnes, resulting in a 21% 
increase. this is primarily due to the additional 
reporting of office and canteen waste in 2020/21, 
which amounts to 72 tonnes.  
 
focus has been on minimising the amount of waste 
and diverting waste from landfill to waste-to-energy 
or recycling. incineration of waste is a well-known 
waste treatment method in europe, but in other parts 
of the world it is a relatively new technology. all our 
production sites have seen an increase in the 
amount of waste that is incinerated. the amount of 
waste going to incineration has increased from 55 
tonnes in 2019/20 to 146 tonnes in 2020/21.this is 
equivalent to a 167% increase. half of the increase 
is due to the inclusion of non-production waste in 
xiamen, and the other half is due to upcycling. of the 
waste sent for incineration, 93% is sent to facilities 
with energy recovery. 
 
in noblesville, focus has been on diverting waste 
from landfill and increasing the amount that is 
recycled. during 2020/21, we engaged a new 
recycling company that can accept waste fractions 
that it was not previously possible to recycle. we 
expect to see this reflected in the numbers during 
2021/22.  
    
in xiamen, we focused on aligning visual inspection 
standards between the injection moulding and 
assembly teams. the alignment of standards has 
resulted in a decrease of 27% in the scrap rate for 
our laryngeal mask family products, when comparing 
the scrap rate for 2019/20 to 2020/21. the plan is to 
align the standards for other product types.  
 
 
 
  
  
 |   
 
28 
 
 
29 
 
social capital 
 
ambu is an innovation-driven company. new ways of 
thinking, different perspectives and a strong culture 
that harmonises it all, are key to ambu’s success. we 
believe that our company survives and prospers 
because of our people, that our heritage in ambu and 
the way we incorporate our company values of 
results with speed, collaboration and integrity, 
while empowering our employees, makes ambu an 
attractive workplace, and we want to keep it that way.  
 
 
ambu’s continued success is 
dependent on employing the 
most qualified people, and 
we are committed to ensuring 
a safe and healthy working 
environment, characterised 
by mutual trust and respect 
as a workplace where every 
employee is treated fairly and 
can prosper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
social capital management 
 
attracting and retaining employees 
 
why it is important 
like every other company, we rely on our people, 
and as a medical device company we rely on a wide 
variety of specialised employees. our ability to 
attract and retain talent is therefore crucial to 
achieving our ambition to be the world's most 
innovative single-use medtech company. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our code of conduct sets out the minimum 
standards for basic employee rights, and we are 
governed by our sustainability engagement policy, 
our global inclusion and diversity policy and our 
human & labour rights policy.  
 
how we work with it 
as ambu grows so does the need for talented 
employees, and with the continued fight for talent in 
our industry, it is important that ambu is perceived as 
an attractive workplace for current and future 
employees. at ambu, we give a lot of emphasis to 
the onboarding process and the development 
opportunities we offer our employees throughout 
their time with ambu. from the very first day, 
employees will have regular check-ins and alignment 
on objectives as well as time for feedback from their 
manager. we want to ensure that employees have 
the chance to make themselves heard, develop their 
skillsets and carry their ambitions forward within 
ambu, regardless of their location or position.  
 
while growth often introduces great opportunities for 
companies and their employees in terms of 
prosperity and new possibilities, it can also pose 
challenges in the form of rapid changes and the need 
to adapt. at ambu, our company culture and 
structures have changed drastically over the past 
few years, and while most people have welcomed 
the changes, we have also seen some choose to 
leave ambu after many years of employment. we are 
always sad to see people go, but we also believe that 
it is important to stay true to oneself and find the path 
that is right. 
 
targets and progress 
we believe that some staff turnover in an 
organisation is healthy, as new talent often brings in 
new ideas. that is why we have a target annual 
turnover rate of 9-12% for our white-collar 
employees, as we believe this is appropriate for an 
organisation of our size and nature. during 2021/22, 
we will work for a turnover target rate that includes 
all employees. 
 
during 2020/21, we experienced an increase in 
employee turnover. a restructuring of our sales 
organisation in the us, to better reflect the pipeline 
of products to be launched, has led to an increase in 
5.1 
5.5 
5.c 
 
8.1 
8.4 
8.7 
8.8 
 |   
 
30 
 
the employee turnover rate. the increase can also 
be attributed to covid-19, in particular at our 
production sites in xiamen and penang where local 
conditions and the fight for talent have increased the 
voluntary turnover rate for our employees. 
 
the covid-19 pandemic has added an extra layer of 
complexity to onboarding and retaining people at 
ambu. with the restrictions at many locations limiting 
the ability to meet up in person, ambu has arranged 
local online events to ensure that both the social and 
professional needs of our employees are met as far 
as possible in this situation. one of the global 
initiatives launched this year is an internal tool called 
values at work, which is a game-based tool that 
enables teams to work with our values and discuss 
how the values can guide us in everyday situations. 
the tool was well-received, and helped employees, 
both new and old to discuss and evaluate the way we 
work at ambu, guided by our values.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human capital development 
 
why it is important 
at ambu we believe that our worth is directly linked 
to that of our employees. as we grow as a company 
so do the opportunities for our employees. by 
ensuring the continuous development of our people, 
we ensure the continuous growth of ambu.   
  
our policies and ambitions 
at ambu we are committed to ensuring the 
continuous development and growth of our people. 
we are governed by our sustainability engagement 
policy and our global inclusion and diversity policy. 
 
how we work with it 
to ensure the continuous development of our 
people, ambu performs talent reviews twice a year, 
which is a process that entails employee dialogue, 
as 
well 
as 
an 
individual 
assessment 
and 
development plan for all employees undertaken by 
local managers and hr partners. furthermore, our 
executive leadership team performs a talent review 
that focuses on identifying and creating progression 
plans for our top talent, to ensure that they continue 
to prosper at ambu. 
 
 
although we see an increasing turnover rate in 
2020/21, in particular in penang and xiamen as well 
as our us sales organization, new local initiatives 
have also led to improvement in retention throughout 
the year.  
 
in noblesville, we saw a reduction in the employee 
turnover rate which is partly a result of continuous 
focus on retention as well as a new focus on acting 
more proactively to feedback from employees. this 
is coupled with regular employee appreciation 
events and greater flexibility for production operators 
to plan their working week. 
 
in xiamen, a buddy programme contributed to 
manpower stability and increased the sense of 
belonging among employees who participated. 
specifically, the programme focuses on customised 
practical and personal interaction between seniors in 
the organisation and newcomers, with focus on 
creating a sense of belonging and a safe space for 
learning and efficient issue resolution. 
 
in september, ambu trading co. ltd. in china was 
recognised as a great place to work. the certificate 
is a validation of the employee experience we have 
created for our people and the great workplace 
culture we have built in the ambu china commercial 
organisation.  
 
 |   
 
31 
 
through our internal programmes and initiatives, we 
want to give our employees the opportunity for personal 
and professional growth and development. 
 
since it was initiated three years ago, the ambu graduate 
programme has made a great impact on 
ambu as it provides a boost to our brand 
and talent pool, as well as contributing to 
the development of our company.  
 
our mentorship programme, available for 
all employees, provides an opportunity for 
mentees and mentors to expand their 
knowledge and capabilities by learning 
from each other through dialogue and 
collaboration. 
 
targets and progress 
during 2020/21, we had nine young 
talents in our global graduate programme, 
and in september 2021, we welcomed six 
new graduates. during the programme, 
they will try out different positions at ambu 
and visit our sites. we hope to roll this out 
to more countries in the near future. 
 
in august 2021, ambu limited (uk) was 
awarded the we invest in people silver 
award. 
receiving 
this 
accreditation 
means 
that 
ambu 
supports 
the 
development 
of 
its 
employees 
and 
facilitates a supportive and rewarding 
work place for all. 
 
 
working towards diversity & equality 
 
why it is important 
several studies have shown that gender diversity 
correlates with better financial performance. an uneven 
pattern of pay by gender, or promotion and seniority by 
gender, can indicate risks related to workplace inequality 
and thereby an inability to attract female talent. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
our code of conduct sets out the minimum standards 
for basic employee rights, and we are governed by our 
sustainability engagement policy, our global inclusion 
and diversity policy and our human & labour rights 
policy. 
 
how we work with it 
at ambu, we believe that an inclusive, diverse and 
equitable working environment ensures a sense of 
belonging that engages our people’s full potential 
whereby innovation and performance can thrive. we are 
committed to ensuring a vibrant, welcoming community 
that enables diversity of thought, as we want to 
continually be able to attract, develop and retain talent 
and believe that there should be equal opportunities for 
everyone, irrespective of gender, age, race, nationality, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, education, 
perspective and other diversity factors, but also because 
this is the right thing to do. 
 
our values of collaboration and integrity are an integral 
part of this and essential elements to help drive inclusion 
in our teams and deliver results with speed.  
 
to achieve our ambitions, we work actively to implement 
inclusion in our recruitment and development processes. 
we perform annual gender pay ratio assessments as 
part of our annual salary review process, to identify gaps 
and propose action plans to ensure that no inequality 
exists at any given location and job level. we believe that 
gender should not affect pay. we expect our leaders to 
role-model inclusive leadership by valuing diverse 
perspectives and creating a space where all employees 
feel comfortable to speak up and can contribute fully. 
 
 
the danish financial statement act 99b constitutes that large companies must 
report on gender diversity. large companies that have an equal distribution of 
men and women (40:60), and who therefore have no obligation to set a target 
figure, must state this in the management's review. 
 |   
 
32 
 
 
targets and progress 
currently, ambu gives particular focus to gender 
diversity, with our goal of each gender being represented 
by at least 40% in management by 2023. while some 
parts of the organisation have reached the target, we 
continue to work with increasing gender diversity across 
all of ambu.  
 
 
in 2020/21, there was a decrease in the proportion of 
women among all managers. this can be attributed to a 
decrease in the proportion of women managers across 
our european locations, as well as in penang. we still 
experience that gender diversity is biased towards male 
leaders as the minority in penang.  
 
at the end of 2020/21, there was one woman on the 
ambu a/s board of directors. in august, the board 
announced a proposal that susanne larsson, cfo at 
mölnlycke, and michael del prado, former company 
group chairman of johnson & johnson medical 
devices, be elected as new members of the board of 
directors at the annual general meeting on 14 december 
2021. board member michael worning will not seek re-
election. with the election of the two new members, we 
will further strengthen the diversity of our board in terms 
of both gender and nationality.  
 
to ensure equal opportunities for men and women at 
ambu, we continue our training and development of our 
people leaders in diversity and inclusion through 
recruitment, leadership and values training. throughout 
the past year, we have run a campaign celebrating our 
female leaders to inspire and provide role models for 
future 
female 
leaders 
at 
ambu, both internally and on 
linkedin.  
 
ambu will continue to focus 
on equal pay (maintaining 
ratios within internal target 
range) and will actively use 
job levels and salary bands to 
support equal pay throughout 
the 
organisation. 
since 
gender 
pay 
ratios 
are 
reported on a global scale, 
100% 
alignment 
will 
be 
difficult to achieve as pay 
levels vary across countries 
and regions. 
 
in september, ambu adopted the united nations 
women’s empowerment principles (weps), which, 
through seven principles, offer guidance to businesses 
on how to promote gender equality and women’s 
empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and 
community. jointly established by the un global 
compact and un women, the weps are underpinned 
by international labour standards and 
human rights and by the recognition that 
businesses have an important role in 
promoting gender equality and women’s 
empowerment.  
 
we look forward to learning and 
continuing our work for gender equality 
as a signatory. we expect that one day 
soon, we will no longer be talking about 
diversity and inclusion, as it will be a 
completely 
integrated 
part 
of 
our 
business and society. 
 
 
the seven women’s empowerment principles: 
 
gender pay ratio 
2020/21 
2019/20 
target 
white-collar employees  
1.33 
1.44 
0.80-1.30 
indirect blue-collar employees 
1.02 
0.97 
0.90-1.10 
blue-collar employees 
1.09 
1.18 
0.90-1.10 
 
the gender pay ratio shows the number of times the female median salary can be covered by the male 
median salary. the figure includes 99.7% of our employees.  
 
 |   
 
33 
 
ensuring a safe and healthy workplace  
 
why it is important 
safety at work is not only a basic human right, since 
working conditions also have a great impact on 
employees and their families, as well as communities 
and the business. a disproportionately high level of 
work-related injuries and sickness absence is costly and 
is recognised as an indicator of a challenged working 
environment, e.g. regarding safety or occupational 
health and safety.  
 
our policies and ambitions 
at ambu, we consider the health and safety of our 
employees to be our highest priority. our code of 
conduct sets out the minimum standards for basic 
employee rights and our commitment to ensuring the 
health and safety of our employees. we are further 
governed by our sustainability engagement policy, our 
global inclusion and diversity policy and our human & 
labour rights policy. 
 
how we work with it 
at ambu we are committed to ensuring safe working 
conditions for all. as we grow with many new colleagues 
joining each month strong onboarding processes and 
alignment of requirements and expectations are needed. 
the health and safety officers appointed at our locations 
are responsible for systematic training, registration and 
reporting, and for checking that safety procedures 
adequately meet the risk level. this is to ensure that 
safety training is tailored to local needs and allows for 
flexibility that takes account of local laws and traditions.  
 
our local health and safety managers do a great job in 
raising awareness and training employees on safety. 
 
at our production sites, safety is our number one priority, 
and a lot of focus is on building and maintaining a safety 
culture to ensure that all of our employees are safe while 
working at ambu. while there is great focus on ensuring 
that we have a sound safety framework, based on 
policies, guidelines, risk assessments and onboarding 
training, we also focus on physical training, such as fork-
lift 
manoeuvring, 
first 
aid, 
emergency 
response 
procedures and simulations (e.g. fire and accident drills) 
as well as targeted training and safety campaigns.  
 
at ambu we perceive health and safety as including both 
the physical and mental well-being of our employees. we 
believe that the purpose-full vision of saving lives and 
improving patient care, combined with our values and 
focus on mental well-being, leads to high job satisfaction 
and thereby low employee turnover. in noblesville, we 
have taken extra measures to ensure the well-being of 
employees 
through 
physical 
therapy, 
telehealth 
programmes and mental health programmes.  
 
targets and progress 
at ambu, we monitor the health and safety of our 
employees through data points for accidents and 
fatalities, as well as sickness absence.  
currently, we monitor safety at our three production sites 
in xiamen (china), penang (malaysia) and noblesville 
(usa), as well as our headquarters as this is where most 
of our safety initiatives are focused. we monitor sickness 
absence globally, and continuously work to improve 
reporting on our performance. 
 
we work continuously to avoid and mitigate accidents 
and our current target is to stay below a lost-time injury 
frequency (ltif) of 2.0. as of 2021/22, we will start 
reporting on accidents globally in ambu. 
 
the lost-time injury frequency rate corresponds to the number 
of accidents with lost time per million hours worked. 
 
 
in 2020/21, ambu had 8 lost-time injuries. 
 
location 
description 
warehouse 
an employee sustained an injury to the 
head on falling from a forklift. 
production floor 
three individual accidents related to 
employees suffering musculoskeletal 
sprain from repetitive motion. 
production floor 
an employee suffered contusion after an 
18 kg roll of plastic fell on the employee’s 
foot. 
production floor 
three individual accidents related to 
employees suffering cuts or bruises that 
required medical attention. 
 
during covid-19, business continuity whilst maintaining 
the good health of our colleagues, was one of the highest 
priorities. social distancing, face masks and shields, 
disinfection of workstations and common areas, as well 
as increased flexibility to allow for testing, have been 
implemented to protect our business and employees. 
thanks to the great local focus on securing the health 
and well-being of our employees, we have only seen 
minor local increases in sickness absence rates across 
the organisation this year. 
 
overall, sickness absence remained stable throughout 
2020/21. however, there were some slight increases 
locally, due to covid-19 and staff vaccinations.  
 |   
 
 
34 
 
  
employee survey 
 
in september 2021, we completed a global mini survey 
to get an indication of the level of employee engagement 
and satisfaction. the survey was sent to all white-collar 
employees, with a response rate of 64%. given the 
timing of the survey during end-of-year closing, this is 
quite a high response rate. looking at the overall results, 
we are satisfied to see an average of 8.1 out of 10 for all 
questions. 
 
participants were asked to respond 'yes' or 'no' to 
whether they had been introduced to the company 
values of results with speed, collaboration and 
integrity. an impressive 99% of all employees have been 
introduced to our company values. 
 
we will conduct a full global engagement survey during 
2021/22, to be able to get more detailed input to identify 
specific areas of improvement. 
 |   
 
35 
 
 
36 
 
business ethics & compliance 
 
as a global company with a long history in the medical 
device industry, we need to ensure that we have our own 
house in order, promote business ethics and compliance 
and act with integrity. this is what our stakeholders 
expect of us, and what is needed for us to retain our 
licence to operate and safeguard our business. through 
our external communication and reporting we aim to 
provide a high level of transparency, as we believe this 
is essential for us to maintain our integrity and reputation 
as ambu. 
 
at ambu, we increasingly face growing expectations and 
requirements for responsible business conduct. most 
recently from our customer nhs (national health 
services) in the uk, which specifically set requirements 
to ensure no violations of human rights and labour 
standards in its supply chain. ambu has taken action to 
ensure that we live up to the labour standards 
assurance system (lsas) developed by the nhs, but 
also to the expectations and requirements of other 
stakeholders. 
 
business ethics & compliance 
compliance 
 
why it is important 
failing to comply with all applicable laws and regulations 
poses an enormous risk for businesses as they may lose 
their licence to operate and face big fines and penalties 
as well as damage to their reputation. 
 
one of our challenges at ambu is that our business 
involves engagement with governments and many local 
suppliers, as well as operations, in countries considered 
to be high-risk, from a compliance perspective. 
navigating the complex landscape of local laws, rules, 
legislation and customs requires a high level of due 
diligence and processes to ensure compliance.  
 
 
 
our policies and ambitions 
it is ambu’s policy to maintain the highest ethical 
standards and to comply with all applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and local customary practices. the ambu 
code of conduct for our employees and for our business 
partners guides our behaviour and set out the minimum 
standards for ethical behaviour 
 
how we work with it 
at ambu, our compliance management system provides 
a framework for compliant behaviour. this allows us to 
continuously monitor and evaluate our compliance 
efforts and ensure that we adhere to all the standards set 
for us in healthcare systems around the world and that 
there is consistency and authenticity in the way we work 
and what we provide. 
  
the system is developed in line with the most important 
national and international guidelines and standards 
(including iso 19600, the oecd guidelines for 
multinational enterprises and a resource guide to the 
u.s. foreign corrupt practices act), and it meets the 
latest 
updated 
requirements 
of 
industry-specific 
enforcement guidelines.  
 
at ambu, all employees and business partners are 
strongly encouraged to act promptly when faced with 
suspicions or concerns about criminal offences, 
violations of ambu’s code of conduct and policies as 
well as other serious violations of law or regulations that 
govern ambu’s operations. the ambu whistleblower 
hotline is one of the tools we use to detect and act on 
potential violations as it encourages and enables all 
customers, business partners and our own employees to 
raise serious concerns about misconduct and improper 
management, including fraud, bribery, serious breaches 
 |   
 
37 
 
of occupational health and safety standards, and serious 
issues directed towards an employee, such as 
discrimination, violence or sexual assault, or serious 
violations of local policies. 
 
the tool is governed by an internal hotline committee 
who comprise the decision-making body for the hotline. 
the director of corporate business ethics & compliance 
acts as the secretariat of the hotline committee and is 
responsible for reporting to the cfo and audit 
committee (board). 
 
international studies across different industries show that 
there may be a reluctance among employees and 
external partners to report suspected misconduct to the 
hotline, e.g. due to fear of retaliation and a perception 
that reports do not lead to action. this is why, during 
2020/21, we have initiated a campaign to raise 
awareness of our business ethics and compliance 
programmes at ambu, and to promote the whistleblower 
hotline.  
 
targets and progress 
during 2020/21, we have developed mandatory 
employee training on our code of conduct and rolled it 
out to all white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees. 
with a succession rate of 99.7% for employees in scope 
for 2020/21 (all white-collar and indirect employees), we 
are very satisfied with the dedication and commitment 
from the organization.  
 
our target for 2021/22 focuses on the addition of code 
of conduct training for all our blue-collar employees and 
to run code of conduct campaigns across ambu. going 
forward, annual completion of the training will be 
mandatory for all.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* all white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees in scope for 
mandatory code of conduct training in 2020/21. 
 
 
ambu’s whistleblower hotline received 10 reports in 
2020/21. all reports fell within the scope of our code of 
conduct and were investigated. 
 
whistleblower hotline 
2020/21 
2019/20 
number of reports to the 
whistleblower hotline 
10 
5 
…number of reports 
within scope 
10 
3 
 
three 
reports 
regarded 
allegations 
of 
theft, 
embezzlement, fraud and falsification of various kinds. 
two reports concerned allegations of bribery and 
corruption, and another two concerned discrimination 
and harassment. one report was about allegations of 
violations of laws and regulations, including ambu 
policies and procedures, and one was about allegations 
of human rights violations. finally, one report was about 
major health, safety and environmental issues. they 
were all investigated and dealt with according to our 
whistleblower procedure. only one case (regarding 
allegations of theft) was substantiated and led to legal 
actions against a former employee.  
 
 
 |   
 
38 
 
ambu perceives the increase in reports as a positive 
result of our efforts to sustain a culture of integrity and to 
raise awareness about the hotline and our policies for 
ethical business conduct through, for instance, our 
employee training in our code of conduct, as well as 
internal and external communication about the hotline. 
 
bribery & anti-corruption 
 
why it is important 
bribery and corruption are contributing factors for many 
of the world biggest conflicts and are a serious problem 
for political stability. in many parts of the world, for some 
people even the simplest things, such as going to the 
doctor, involve bribery. ambu is exposed to the risk of 
bribery and corruption in many areas of our business, but 
we face particular risks in our interactions with 
distributors and healthcare professionals. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
it is ambu’s policy to maintain the highest ethical 
standards and to comply with all applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and local customary practices. the ambu 
code of conduct for our employees and for our business 
partners guides our behaviour and set out the minimum 
standards for ethical behaviour.  
 
how we work with it 
at ambu we work to eliminate bribery and corruption by 
raising awareness of the risks and requirements for 
ethical behaviour, and we require all our employees and 
business partners to comply with our rules. our code of 
conduct provides guidelines on ethical practices and 
standards, including how to mitigate and handle the risks 
of bribery and corruption.  
 
ambu has an ethical responsibility to ensure that it is not 
perceived as an improper inducement to positive 
evaluations and promotions of our products. to mitigate 
the risk of improper inducement and conflict of interest, 
we do our outmost to ensure openness and transparency 
and to protect the healthcare professionals with whom 
we interact. 
 
targets and progress 
targeted training and guidelines on how to handle the 
risks of bribery and corruption have been developed and 
rolled out to employees in selected countries who 
interact with healthcare 
professionals 
and 
our 
distributors, as 
this is 
where our biggest risks lie. 
 
in 2021/22, training in our 
code of conduct will be 
rolled out to our blue-collar 
employees 
and 
annual 
completion 
will 
be 
mandatory 
for 
all 
employees.  
 
 
data ethics 
 
report on data ethics 
pursuant to section 99d of 
the 
danish 
financial 
statements act. 
 
why it is important 
as data becomes increasingly important in our 
connected society, it is more important than ever to 
establish rules and define guidelines on good practices 
for data collection, storage and use. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
it is ambu’s policy to maintain the highest ethical 
standards and to comply with all applicable data and 
privacy laws and regulations. the area is governed by 
ambu’s data ethics policy, as well as internal policies and 
standard operating procedures. our privacy policy 
describes how information about individual persons may 
be collected, used, disclosed, transferred and stored by 
ambu. 
 
how we work with it 
ambu wants to ensure a high and adequate level of data 
protection, as we recognise that privacy is a keystone in 
gaining and maintaining the trust of employees, 
customers, suppliers and business partners, thereby 
ensuring ambu's business in the future. 
  
while we at ambu do not process large quantities of 
personal data, we acknowledge the importance of 
safeguarding people’s personal data. there is also an 
ethical perspective to data, as the use of ai (artificial 
intelligence) in our solutions could present some ethical 
dilemmas that need to be managed appropriately.  
 
 
 
 |   
 
39 
 
targets and progress 
we are committed to complying with all applicable 
personal data protection laws, including the danish 
financial statements act § 99d. 
 
all of our european employees are required to complete 
annual training on gdpr. in 2020/21, we achieved a 
completion rate of 95%. while this is below our target of 
a 100% completion rate, it issues have resulted in some 
employees not being registered as having completed the 
course. we are following up internally and externally with 
our supplier of the it solution to ensure that this issue is 
resolved. 
 
protection of human and labour rights 
 
why it is important 
how we treat our employees is fundamental to the way 
we want to drive our business, and to the results we 
achieve. we believe that our employees are essential to 
the success of ambu, and that proper working conditions 
create the best workplace, company and products. 
ensuring respect for internationally recognised human 
rights and labour standards is essential. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
it is ambu’s policy to maintain the highest ethical 
standards and to comply with all applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, and local customary practices. the ambu 
code of conduct for our employees and for 
our business partners set out the minimum 
standards for ethical behaviour and basic 
employee rights. ambu respects freedom of 
association and the right to collective 
bargaining for our employees, according to 
the laws or practices of the countries in 
which we operate. 
 
our labour & human rights policy defines the 
labour and human rights standards to which 
all 
ambu 
employees 
are 
entitled, 
irrespective of the country in which they 
work, and communicates our expectations 
towards our business partners. our local 
employee 
handbooks 
translate 
key 
messages to our employees to ensure 
awareness of and compliance with the policies. 
 
ambu is subject to the 2015 modern slavery act and 
publishes an annual statement according to the 
requirements. the 2021 uk modern slavery act 
statement can be found on ambu.com. 
 
how we work with it 
at ambu, we believe that our organisational set-up, 
based on decentralisation and the empowerment of local 
leaders, contributes to our integrity, as it provides a 
better foundation for understanding and managing local 
culture and norms.  
 
training of our global people managers in our values and 
our code of conduct are important elements to ensure 
visibility and awareness of our policies and standards, 
while ensuring consistency across ambu. employee 
training in our code of conduct supports our efforts to 
increase awareness and alignment across all sites and 
employees. 
 
as we rely on manpower agencies, especially in asia, to 
attract employees for our production, we rely on these 
companies to comply with all applicable laws and 
legislations in the area, as well as the guidelines from 
ambu. these agencies must sign our code of conduct 
to ensure they are aware of and committed to our 
standards. 
 
ambu encourages all employees and business partners 
to report any potential violations of human rights and 
labour standards at ambu via our whistleblower hotline.  
 
targets and progress 
our ambition for 2020/21 was to identify and act on the 
gaps related to the protection of human rights and labour 
rights in our own operations as well as our supply chain. 
this included the development of our responsible 
supplier programme (see next page), as well as an 
internal review of our employee handbooks to ensure 
they provide all relevant information and guidance 
needed to ensure that we comply with all applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and local customary practices. 
 
in 2021/22, we will focus on further cementing our 
dedication to ensuring the protection of human rights and 
labour 
rights 
by 
continuing 
our 
learning 
and 
implementation of the programmes and processes 
started in 2020/21. we will continue our work to ensure 
compliance 
with 
all 
external 
requirements 
and 
legislation. 
 |   
 
40 
 
responsible supplier management 
 
why it is important 
when large multinational companies make purchasing 
decisions for their operations, these decisions have a 
major environmental, social and economic impact all 
over the world. not only do these decisions have a direct 
impact on the company itself and its direct suppliers, but 
they also have great impact on the entire supply chain 
and the local communities that are sourced from. being 
able to monitor and address the impact and risks of these 
decisions is vital for a business to ensure the integrity 
and continuity of the company and protect its reputation 
and business. 
 
our policies and ambitions 
the ambu global procurement policy sets the direction 
for ambu's global procurement activities, with the 
purpose of ensuring compliance with principles and 
applicable rules and regulations, whilst allowing ambu to 
meet its business objectives. to ensure that purchases 
from suppliers consider environmental and social 
aspects of the total life cycle of the purchase, the policy 
is supported by our sustainability engagement policy. 
 
how we work with it 
at ambu, we aim to work with suppliers that share our 
commitment to sustainability and responsible business 
practices. ambu wants to support suppliers who are 
committed 
to 
implementing 
responsible business 
practices. therefore, if a potential issue is identified 
during the due diligence process, ambu and the supplier 
will agree and collaborate on the required improvements, 
rather than simply terminating the collaboration. we 
believe that as a big multinational company, we can 
make a difference in global supply chains.  
to support our ambition, we have developed a 
comprehensive 
responsible 
supplier 
programme. 
together with our code of conduct for business 
partners, the programme is designed to ensure that our 
suppliers not only address quality and cost requirements, 
but also a wide range of sustainability and integrity 
considerations, such as business ethics, labour rights 
and human rights and environmental impacts. it is 
developed to meet the growing expectations of our 
stakeholders and complies with requirements set out in 
the lsas developed by nhs uk.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* suppliers in scope are all a, b or c suppliers, regardless of the spend 
volume, and d suppliers with a yearly spend above dkk 250,000. 
 
 
while we already require strategic suppliers to sign the 
ambu code of conduct, the programme extends our 
requirements to our direct suppliers and finished goods 
suppliers with spend above dkk 1 million (126 in 
scope), who will also be individually assessed as part of 
a due diligence process to ensure that they have 
implemented responsible business practices.  
 
supplier due diligence will be conducted on an ongoing 
basis, with revision and repetition of the exercise every 
2-3 years, based on the current risk profile. new 
suppliers will enter the programme and go through the 
processes upon onboarding. the programme is 
designed so that it can be extended to include more and 
more suppliers and is developed in line with the ambu 
compliance management system. 
 
 
 |   
 
41 
 
 
 
 
the governance structure of the responsible supplier 
programme decision board has been developed to 
ensure that action is taken, should difficulties with a 
supplier arise.  
 
targets and progress 
in 2020/21, we developed our responsible supplier 
programme and initiated the five steps of the programme 
for all suppliers in scope and reached our targets set for 
the year. 
 
in 2021/22 we will focus on continuous learning while 
working with and improving the programme both 
internally and externally to ensure we live up to external 
requirements, including upcoming legislation in this area. 
we will also look into adding more suppliers and 
parameters for assessment to the programme.  
 
our targets for 2021/22 are to complete all ongoing and 
planned due diligence on selected suppliers in scope for 
2021/22 and to perform minimum two site visits at 
selected medium- and high-risk suppliers.  
 
 
 
transparent tax management 
 
why it is important 
ambu develops, produces and sells medical devices to 
hospitals and health care professionals around the 
world. in the conduct of our business, we strive to meet 
the standard of being a good corporate citizen in all 
countries where we operate. 
 
policies and ambitions 
the ambu tax policy presents ambu’s most relevant tax 
policies and standards of operation within the field of 
corporate income tax. it is the overall responsibility of our 
cfo to ensure that ambu’s activities and tax positions 
are compliant with the tax policy. 
 
how we work with it 
ambu operates a simple transfer pricing setup based on 
the principal structure and pays corporate income tax in 
the 
countries 
where 
business 
is 
conducted 
in 
accordance with the framework of international tax laws 
and the oecd guidelines on transfer pricing. 
 
 |   
 
42 
 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
see the ambu sustainability & esg accounting practices for more information on data definitions and scope. 
 
product governance indicators 
comments on 2020/21 product governance indicators 
due to new regulations and iso standards, an extraordinary 
number of studies conducted in 2020/21. further comments on 
product governance can be found on pages 11-15. 
 
 
 
 
governance and compliance indicators 
 
comments on 2020/21 governance and compliance indicators 
 
the ceo pay ratio is calculated by applying full-year 
compensation for ceo juan jose gonzales against the 
average 
compensation 
paid 
excluding 
the 
executive 
management of ambu a/s. the decrease in the ceo pay ratio 
from 34 in 2019/20 to 12 in 2020/21 is due to differences in 
share remuneration. the ambu board of directors held nine 
meetings during 2020/21. all board members, during their 
tenure, 
attended 
all 
meetings. 
further 
comments 
on 
remuneration and corporate governance can be found in the 
2020/21 remuneration report and 2020/21 annual report, 
respectively. 
all employees within scope have completed the mandatory 
code of conduct training. the remaining 0.3% is due to a delay 
for employees who had not completed the training by the cut-off 
date for the report. ambu’s whistleblower hotline received ten 
reports (all within scope) in 2020/21. ambu perceives the 
increase in reports as a positive result of our efforts to sustain a 
culture of integrity and raise awareness about the hotline and 
our policies for ethical business conduct. further comments on 
business ethics & compliance can be found on pages 36-41. 
 
  
target 
2022/23 
2020/21 
2019/20 
2018/19 
2017/2018 
2016/2017 
product safety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fda warning letters (number) 
0 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
recalls (number) 
0-5 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
clinical trials and animal tests 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total number of biosafety and design validation studies 
 
189 
– 
– 
– 
– 
total number of animals used in trials with biosafety purpose 
initiated 
 
168 
– 
– 
– 
– 
completed clinical trials 
 
2 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 
target 
2023/24 
2020/21 
2019/20 
2018/19 
2017/2018 
2016/2017 
corporate governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ceo pay ratio (times) 
 
12 
34 
24 
16 
15 
board meeting attendance rate (%) 
 
100 
95 
100 
97 
– 
business ethics & compliance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees trained in code of 
conduct (%) 
100 
99.7 
– 
– 
– 
– 
number of reports through whistleblower hotline (number) 
 
10 
5 
0 
– 
– 
…of which within scope (number) 
 
10 
3 
0 
– 
– 
 |   
 
44 
 
environmental indicators 
 
* includes emissions from our three production sites and headquarters. ** includes emissions from our three production sites and headquarters (incl. company 
cars). *** includes emissions from our three production sites, offices and company cars and fugitive emissions from refrigerants (from production sites and 
headquarters). **** ambu is dedicated to reporting all greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide) and therefore always seeks to use 
conversion factors displayed as co2e. of nine conversion factors, two are not available as co2e (electricity in china and district heating in hq). 
 
comments on 2020/21 environmental indicators 
during 2020/21, we expanded the data collection process in 
order to get a full picture of our scope 1 and 2 emissions. in 
2019/20, we disclosed emissions from all of our production sites 
and our headquarters. in 2020/21, we also disclose emissions 
from electricity used in all ambu-leased international offices and 
warehouses, fuel consumption in all leased and owned 
company cars and fugitive emissions from leakage of cooling 
agents at our production sites and headquarters. this is the 
main reason for the big increase in our carbon emissions and 
energy consumption. please be aware that the company cars 
included run on a mix of lpg, diesel, petrol and electricity. 
 
we have included scope 2 emissions calculated using the 
market-based method. 
even though electricity used in offices and warehouses has 
been added, a decrease in scope 2 emissions is observed. this 
is due to the electricity generation by our solar panels in 
penang, which have produced 1,510 mwh and thereby saved 
800 tonnes of co2 from being emitted. this is also reflected in 
both the renewable energy share and the renewable electricity 
share.  
 
the increase in water consumption is due to an increase in the 
number of employees.  
 
the increased amount of waste is partly due to non-production 
waste now being reported by xiamen and an increase in 
production in penang. 
  
target 
2024/25 
2020/21*** 
2019/20** 
2018/19* 
2017/2018 
2016/2017 
co2**** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
scope 1 (metric tonnes co2e) 
 
4,329 
957  
944  
845 
842 
     emissions from burning of natural gas and lpg (metric tonnes) 
 
2,812 
861 
- 
- 
- 
     emissions from burning of petrol and diesel (metric tonnes) 
 
1,298 
96 
- 
- 
- 
     emissions from refrigerants (metric tonnes) 
 
219 
- 
- 
- 
- 
scope 2 – location based (metric tonnes co2e) 
 
18,027 
 18,249  
 17,141  
13,768 
14,899 
scope 2 – market based (metric tonnes co2e) 
 
18,505 
- 
- 
- 
- 
scope 1 + 2 (metric tonnes co2e)  
9,043 
22,356 
19,206 
18,085 
14,613 
15,741 
scope 1 + 2 by tonne of manufactured products (metric tonnes 
co2e /ton) 
 
2.14 
1.90  
1.96 
1.65 
1.78 
scope 1 + 2 by revenue (metric tonnes co2e /dkkm) 
 
5.57 
5.38  
6.41  
5.61 
6.68 
energy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total energy consumption (gj) 
 
199,927 
 138,411  
 130,849 
107,185 
113,072 
     energy from natural gas and lpg (gj) 
 
47,634 
16,947 
- 
- 
- 
     energy from petrol and diesel (gj) 
 
18,865 
1,324 
- 
- 
- 
     energy from electricity from grid (gj) 
 
124,371 
116,978 
- 
- 
- 
     energy from electricity from solar panels (gj) 
 
5,501 
180 
- 
- 
- 
     energy from district heating (gj) 
 
3,556 
2,982 
- 
- 
- 
renewable energy share (%) 
 
2.8 
0.13  
0.05  
- 
- 
renewable electricity share (%) 
 
4.2 
0.15 
- 
- 
- 
water 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total water consumption (m3) 
 
137,115 
 123,115  
 129,958  
101,142 
116,233 
waste 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total waste (metric tonnes) 
 
2,429 
 2,276  
 1,661  
1,226 
1,426 
     waste sent to incineration (metric tonnes) 
 
146 
55 
- 
- 
- 
     waste sent to recycling (metric tonnes) 
 
968 
937 
868 
1,167 
12,17 
     waste sent to landfill (metric tonnes) 
 
1,315 
1,284 
- 
- 
- 
waste recycled (%) 
 
40 
41 
57 
70 
65 
hazardous waste (%) 
 
0.6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 |   
 
45 
 
social indicators 
 
* the employee turnover rate for all employees and white-collar employees and the sickness absence rate for 2019/20 have been restated, as we detected 
errors in the data reported last year. years prior to that have not been restated. 
** gender pay ratio for indirect blue-collar and blue-collar employees were switched in 2019/20. this has been corrected. 
 
 
comments on 2020/21 social indicators 
the decrease in the proportion of women (%), both at 
management level and across ambu, can be attributed to more 
equal gender representation in penang and a decrease in the 
proportion of women managers across our european locations. 
as we continue to focus on equal pay at ambu, we see a more 
equal gender pay ratio across all employee groups (white-collar, 
indirect blue-collar and blue-collar employees) in 2020/21. 
further comments on our performance on diversity and equality, 
along with our targets and progress, can be found on pages 31-
32. 
 
the increase in employee turnover both among white-collar 
employees and across ambu can be attributed to the 
restructuring of our us sales organisation as well as increasing 
turnover at our production sites in penang and xiamen. further 
comments on our performance on employee attraction and 
retention, along with our targets and progress can be found on 
page 29-32. 
 
the decrease in lost-time injury frequency (ltif) is due to a 
drop in the number of accidents during 2020/21, while the total 
number of hours worked increased. particularly ballerup and 
penang saw an increase in hours worked, due to more 
employees joining. we have not seen any material development 
in the sickness absence rate this year, despite covid-19. 
further comments on our performance on employee health & 
safety, along with our targets and progress can be found on 
pages 33-34. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
target 
2022/23 
2020/21 
2019/20 
2018/19 
2017/18 
2016/17 
number of full-time employees at year-end 
 
4,584 
4,187 
3,108 
2,795 
2,607 
average number of employees 
 
4,437 
3,617 
2,957 
2,712 
2,503 
diversity & equality 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gender – female/total (%) 
45-55% 
57 
60 
58 
57 
57 
gender – female white-collar managers/all white-collar 
managers (%) 
40-45% 
37 
36 
37 
37 
37 
gender – female managers/all managers (%) 
40-45% 
37 
41 
43 
42 
– 
gender – female executives/executive leadership team (%) 
40% 
33 
25 
– 
– 
– 
gender – female members of the board of directors (%) 
33.3-
66.7% 
20 
17 
0 
0 
– 
gender pay ratio, white-collar employees (times) 
0.80-1.30 
1.33 
1.44 
– 
– 
– 
gender pay ratio, indirect blue-collar employees (times) 
0.90-1.10 
1.02 
0.97** 
– 
– 
– 
gender pay ratio, blue-collar employees (times) 
0.90-1.10 
1.09 
1.18** 
– 
– 
– 
employee attraction & retention 
 
 
 
 
 
 
employee turnover rate, white-collar employees (%) 
9-12% 
17 
9* 
13 
11 
– 
employee turnover rate, all employees (%) 
 
18 
14* 
13 
15 
– 
voluntary turnover rate, all employees (%) 
 
15 
– 
– 
– 
– 
involuntary turnover rate, all employees (%) 
 
3 
– 
– 
– 
– 
employee health & safety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sickness absence rate (%) 
 
1.76 
1.76* 
1.51 
1.50 
– 
fatalities (number) 
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
lost-time injury frequency (number of accidents with lost time 
per million hours worked) 
max. 2.0 
1.07 
1.44 
1.32 
– 
– 
 |   
 
46 
 
we continuously strive to develop our sustainability & esg data 
collection and reporting in order to support our business and 
provide our stakeholders with relevant and transparent 
sustainability & esg data. 
we are at the beginning of a journey towards ensuring data 
registration, collection and reporting covering all relevant 
sustainability & esg indicators and expect to develop further in 
the coming years.    
business changes impacting sustainability & esg data 
no mergers or acquisitions impacted sustainability & esg data 
for 2020/21. 
detailing of sustainability & esg indicators 
in order to increase data transparency, we have decided to 
detail some of our sustainability & esg indicators.  
co2 
previously only the total amount of co2 divided into scope 1 
and 2 emissions was reported. as from 2020/21, we will also 
divide the total scope 1 and 2 emissions into fuel or energy type.  
scope 1 (total) 
• 
from natural gas and lpg 
• 
from petrol and diesel  
• 
from refrigerants 
scope 2 (total) 
• 
market based 
• 
location based 
energy  
previously, only the total amount of energy was reported. as 
from 2020/21, we will also divide the total energy consumption 
into fuel or energy type.  
energy consumption (total) 
• 
from natural gas and lpg 
• 
from petrol and diesel  
• 
from electricity from grid  
• 
from electricity from solar panels 
• 
from district heating 
waste 
previously only the total amount of waste has been reported. 
from 2020/21, we will also divide the total amount of waste into 
treatment method. 
waste (total) 
• 
recycled waste 
• 
incinerated waste 
• 
landfilled waste 
recycled waste (%) 
hazardous waste (%) 
employee turnover 
previously only the total turnover for all employees was 
reported. as from this year, we add a detail layer dividing the 
total turnover into voluntary and non-voluntary turnover.  
 
new sustainability & esg indicators 
• 
fda warning letters (number) 
• 
number of recalls (number) 
• 
animal testing (number) 
• 
clinical trials (number) 
• 
scope 2 market-based (metric tonnes co2e) 
• 
ceo pay ratio (times) 
• 
white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees trained in 
code of conduct (%) 
• 
number of reports through whistleblower hotline (number) 
revised sustainability & esg indicators 
some numbers from previous financial years have been 
restated to correct errors in previously reported data. if the 
update has resulted in material changes to the figures, a note to 
the change and effect is provided.  
• 
scope 2 emissions are reported as both location- and 
market-based. 
• 
gender pay ratio for indirect blue-collar and blue-collar 
employees were switched by mistake in the 2019/20 
reporting. this has been corrected, resulting in less 
significant development for the two indicators. 
• 
turnover rates for 2019/20 have been restated, as we 
discovered errors in the data collected from local sites, 
giving a significant increase in our total turnover rate last 
year. the data has been restated according to this year’s 
accounting practice, excluding employees engaged by 
ambu for less than eight days. as the error was mainly in 
the turnover data for blue-collar employees, the turnover 
rate for white-collar employees has not changed. 
• 
we have expanded our disclosure of turnover data to 
provide more transparency on the nature of terminations 
(i.e. voluntary and non-voluntary), as we believe this 
provides more value to the reader in understanding the 
nature of our turnover. 
• 
the sickness absence rate for 2019/20 has been restated 
as we discovered errors in the data collected from local 
sites. while the restatement has caused a minor increase 
in the sickness absence rate, it is still at satisfactory levels 
across the organisation. 
discontinued sustainability & esg indicators 
we have chosen to discontinue our disclosure of sickness days 
per employee as we believe the sickness absence rate provides 
a better picture of our performance for sickness absence. we 
still collect and monitor the data internally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 |   
 
47 
 
reporting standards 
this report complies with the danish financial statements act 
§99a and §99d. key esg data follows the recommendations in 
“esg key figures in annual reporting” prepared by the danish 
finance society/cfa society denmark, fsr – danish auditors 
and nasdaq copenhagen with assistance from the center for 
esg research. 
our materiality assessment, developed on the basis of guidance 
in the global reporting initiative’s (gri) reporting principles, 
is used to determine report content. 
reporting period 
our reporting period covers our financial year running from 1 
october 2020 to 30 september 2021. 
controls 
a sustainability reporting manual was developed in 2019/20 as 
a core element of our annual reporting cycle. it defines the 
reporting rules, processes and responsibilities for sustainability 
& esg reporting at ambu, including a two-tier control 
mechanism. specifically, data owners are requested to include 
another colleague for control/quality assurance of data. data 
owners are also required to provide an explanation for 
significant developments in the data reported.  
reporting scope 
the scope for product governance indicators is defined as part 
of the indicator descriptions. 
the scope for our energy consumption and co2 emissions 
covers our three production sites as well as offices and 
warehouses owned or leased by ambu. it also covers all 
company cars owned or leased by ambu. the scope for our 
water consumption and waste solely covers our three 
production sites and headquarters. offices and warehouses are 
not included in the water and waste mapping due to non 
accessible data. 
all social indicators, except for safety (ltif and fatalities), 
include all temporary and permanent employees (based on full-
time equivalents – fte) with an ambu contract. people without 
an ambu contract, e.g. interns, consultants and externally hired 
temps, are excluded. sickness absence is captured for 98% of 
our employees. the scope for ltif and fatalities is our 
headquarters (hq) and our three production sites in china, 
malaysia and the usa. 
the scope for governance and compliance indicators is defined 
as part of the indicator descriptions. 
 
 
 
product governance indicators 
fda warning letters 
the scope of disclosure includes all fda warning letters 
received by ambu or by its subsidiaries.  
number of recalls  
recalls are defined as action taken to remove a product from 
the market for which it has been concluded that it could 
potentially affect the safety of patients or users.  
the scope of disclosure includes recalls associated with all 
devices manufactured by ambu or by its subsidiaries. recall of 
products made purely for commercial reason are not in scope 
for reporting. 
animal testing 
the scope covers all animal testing for a biosafety purpose and 
animal testing performed for innovation purposes (design 
validation or similar). 
clinical trials 
the scope covers all clinical trials. activities such as surveys 
performed for safety purposes are not considered to be clinical 
trials and are not in scope. 
environmental indicators 
greenhouse gas emissions (co2e) 
besides accounting for co2 emissions, we also include other 
greenhouse gas emissions. these are all converted to co2e 
using the global warming potential figures from the ipcc fifth 
assessment report. greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed 
according to the greenhouse gas protocol. 
scope 1 covers direct ghg emissions from sources that are 
controlled by the company.  
ambu has the following sources of scope 1 emissions:  
• 
consumption of natural gas and lpg.  
• 
consumption of fuels both at production sites and in 
company cars. as it is not possible to collect fuel or driving 
data from our company cars used by our sales force, 
emissions are calculated using a standardised yearly 
driving distance and emission from an average car.  
• 
leakage of refrigerants from air conditioning and 
ventilation units. 
scope 2 covers indirect ghg emissions from the generation of 
purchased electricity or heat used by the company, where the 
greenhouse gas emissions physically occur at the facility where 
the electricity or heat is generated. as from 2020/21, ambu 
discloses scope 2 emissions according to both the market- and 
location-based method. in order to compare scope 2 figures 
with data reported in 2019/20, all scope 2 comparisons are 
made using the location-based numbers.  
consumption of electricity and district heating at our three 
production sites and headquarters is based on invoices. 
consumption of electricity used at our sales offices and 
warehouses is based on standardised numbers of kwh per m2.  
conversion factors  
energy and refrigerant consumption is converted to co2 
emissions using acknowledged sources, e.g. us epa, defra. 
ambu is dedicated to reporting all greenhouse gases which are 
relevant to ambu. these are carbon dioxide, methane and 
nitrous oxide. we therefore always seek to use conversion 
factors displayed as co2e. two conversion factors are not 
available as co2e (electricity in china and district heating in 
hq). 
 |   
 
48 
 
total energy consumption is summarised in gj. conversion of 
units to gj is based on factors presented by the ghg protocol 
cross sector tool, defra conversion factors and other 
recognised sources.  
the renewable energy is generated by solar panels installed at 
our headquarters and at our factory in penang. the renewable 
energy volume from our headquarters is based on a 
performance calculation, while in penang it is based on 
invoices.  
tonnes of manufactured products includes packaging and is 
based on the number and weight of products shipped from our 
factories. 
water consumption is the sum of all water consumed. the sum 
of all water drawn into the boundaries of the company from all 
sources, including surface water, groundwater, rainwater and 
any municipal water supply. water consumption is based on 
meter readings and invoices. it has only been possible to collect 
water consumption data from our three production sites and 
headquarters. 
waste is defined as what is left when production or consumption 
ends. it is material that must be disposed of so that it does not 
accumulate to become a nuisance. waste data is based on 
invoices from waste collectors and divided into total volumes of 
waste and the various waste treatment methods. hazardous 
waste, as defined in the european waste directive, is given as 
a percentage of the total waste amount. waste recycled (%) is 
calculated by dividing the recycled waste amount by the total 
waste amount. hazardous waste (%) is calculated by dividing 
the hazardous waste amount by the total waste amount. it has 
only been possible to collect waste data from our three 
production sites and headquarters.  
social indicators 
the scope for social indicators is all permanent and temporary 
ambu employees (based on full-time equivalents). people 
without an ambu contract, e.g. interns, consultants and 
externally hired temps, are excluded. if another scope is 
applied, this is stated.  
number of full-time employees at year-end includes all 
employees with an ambu contract. employees can be on full-
time, part-time or temporary employment contracts. a full-time 
employee or full-time equivalent (fte) is an employee working 
full time according to national standards.  
average number of employees is the average number of 
employees throughout the year. it is reported as full-time 
equivalents (ftes). 
gender diversity (%) is calculated by comparing the number of 
women among all employees (as per total number of full-time 
employees at year-end) and at different management levels (i.e. 
among white-collar employees, all managers in ambu, within 
the executive leadership team and on the board of directors). 
the gender diversity of members of the board elected by the 
annual general meeting (agm) does not include employee-
elected members. 
gender pay ratio (times) is calculated on the basis of the full 
compensation, which includes total cash target, pension and 
car. the data shows the number of times the female median 
salary can be covered by the male median salary. the figure 
includes 99.7% of our employees.  
employee turnover rate (%) is calculated by comparing the total 
number of both voluntary and non-voluntary leavers (retirees 
and terminations due to abscondment are considered voluntary 
leavers) with the number of ambu employees at year-end 
(fte). blue-collars are reported as headcount; white-collar and 
indirect blue-collar as ftes. as from 2020/21, the data shows 
voluntary and non-voluntary turnover. the turnover rate is only 
calculated for employees with an ambu contract. employees 
employed for less than eight days or leaving at the end of a 
fixed-term contract are excluded. 
sickness absence is calculated as a rate (%) that compares the 
total number of sickness days with the total number of working 
days in the year (excluding planned leave). data for sickness 
absence is collected and reported by hr managers at our local 
offices and production sites. working days for our white-collar 
and indirect blue-collar employees are based on national 
averages or derived from contractual agreements on the 
working hours/week. for our blue-collar employees, we use 
actual working days registered on-site. some local systems are 
not yet able to capture the data in the required format. this 
year’s data includes 98% of our employees. in 2019/20, the data 
included 83% of our employees globally. 
lost-time injury frequency (ltif) is calculated as the number of 
accidents with lost time per million hours worked. hours worked 
are reported for all employees at the sites during the data 
period. our production sites in xiamen, penang and noblesville 
report actual working hours. our headquarters in ballerup use 
an estimate based on contractual agreements (e.g. 37 
hours/week). frequency is calculated for both permanent and 
temporary employees but does not include contractors or 
persons not directly employed by ambu.  
fatalities is the total sum of fatalities reported in 2020/21 at our 
headquarters and our three production sites in china, malaysia 
and the usa. no fatalities were recorded at our remaining sites 
either.  
governance and compliance indicators 
ceo pay ratio is the number of times the average staff salary 
can be covered by the ceo compensation. it is calculated by 
dividing total expenses for ceo compensation (including fixed 
salary and pension contributions) by the average employee 
salary at ambu a/s. the average employee salary is calculated 
by dividing the total staff costs (including employee benefits 
such as company car, telephone and insurance) by the average 
number of employees at ambu a/s during the year. ambu a/s 
data is used to calculate the ratio as it provides a more accurate 
foundation for comparison, without being skewed by differences 
in local salary levels. 
board meeting attendance rate (%) is calculated only for the 
members elected at the annual general meeting (agm) on the 
basis of each member’s attendance of each board meeting 
during their tenure. 
white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees trained in code 
of conduct (%) is calculated by comparing the number of 
employees who have completed training in our code of conduct 
with the number of employees in scope. for 2020/21, only 
white-collar and indirect blue-collar employees are in scope.  
whistle-blower reports include both the total number of reports 
received through the ambu whistleblower hotline and those in 
scope for investigation as per our guidelines
 |   
 
49 
 
to the shareholders of ambu a/s 
we have been engaged by ambu a/s to perform a ‘limited assurance engagement’ as defined by international 
standards on assurance engagements, here after referred to as the engagement, to report on ambu a/s’ sustainability 
& esg data (the “subject matter”) for the period 1 october 2020 to 30 september 2021, which are included on pages 43-
46 in ambu a/s’ sustainability report 2020/21. 
 
in preparing the sustainability & esg data, ambu a/s applied the accounting practice (criteria) described on pages 47-
48.  
 
management’s responsibilities 
management of ambu a/s is responsible for selecting the criteria, and for presenting the sustainability & esg data in 
accordance with that criteria, in all material respects. this responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal 
controls, maintaining adequate records and making estimates that are relevant to the preparation of the subject matter, 
such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
 
our responsibility 
our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the presentation of the subject matter based on our procedures and the 
evidence we have obtained. 
 
we conducted our engagement in accordance with the international standard for assurance engagements other than 
audits or reviews of historical financial information (‘isae 3000’) and additional requirements under danish audit 
legislation. those standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance about 
whether, in all material respects, the subject matter is presented in accordance with the criteria, and to issue a report. 
the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment of the risk 
of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
we have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the ethical standards under 
fsr - danish auditors’ code of ethics for professional accountants, which rely on general principles regarding integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional conduct, and have the required 
competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. ey godkendt revisionspartnerselskab also 
applies international standard on quality control 1, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
 
description of procedures performed  
procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from and are less in extent than for a 
reasonable assurance engagement. consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed. our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion and do 
not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. 
 
although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of 
our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. our procedures 
did not include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within it 
systems. 
 
a limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for preparing the 
sustainability & esg data and related information and applying analytical and other appropriate procedures.  
 
our procedures included: 
• 
conducted interviews with personnel to understand the business and reporting process 
• 
conducted interviews with key personnel to understand the process for collecting, collating and reporting the subject 
matter during the reporting period 
• 
checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in 
the criteria  
• 
undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data 
• 
identified and testing assumptions supporting calculations 
 |   
 
50 
 
• 
tested, on a sample basis, underlying source information to check the accuracy of the data 
• 
performed site visits with manufacturing sites 
 
we also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 
 
conclusion 
based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be 
made to the sustainability & esg data from the period 1 october 2020 to 30 september 2021 in order for it to be in 
accordance with the criteria described on s 47-48. 
 
frederiksberg, 9th of november 2021  
ey godkendt revisionspartnerselskab  
cvr-nr. 30 70 02 28 
 
søren skov larsen 
carina ohm 
partner, state authorized accountant 
partner, head of climate change 
and sustainability services 
mne26797 
 
 
 
 |   
 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
