sustainability 
report 2020
2020 sustainability  
highlights 
of our total cotton consump-
tion in 2020 was sourced more 
sustainably with organic 
cotton accounting for 23%.
we have set greenhouse gas reduction 
goals in line with the paris agreement  
and a 1.5°c pathway through the science 
based targets initiative (sbti).
jack & jones’ low impact denim (lid) 
products now account for approximately 
15 percent of the brand’s denim pro–
duction and this year jack & jones 
further tightened the requirements for 
when a product can be categorised as lid. 
we trained all our buyers and  
designers in circular design principles 
through workshops and online training 
and several of our brands have included 
circular styles in their collections. 
we have launched the fashion fwd lab, 
our new experimental platform, which 
acts as catalyst for collaboration with 
innovators and entrepreneurs to pilot  
and test new ideas and solutions.
of name it’s cotton was sourced 
from organic sources in 2020, while 
selected and y.a.s achieved 67% 
and 66%, respectively.
we increased our use 
of more sustainable 
man-made cellulosic 
fibres from 11% to 
34%. our biggest 
contributors were 
vero moda 
and only, who 
respectively reached 
54% and 32% of their 
total supply. 
84%
76%
together with cyclo, bestseller has developed a closed-loop 
system in conjunction with our biggest jersey supplier in bangladesh 
– gms composite knitting. cyclo recycles our brands’ own cutting 
scraps to make useable cotton yarn and fabric.
bestseller
fashion fwd
2
sustainability report 2020
bestseller
fashion fwd
2
sustainability report 2020
suppliers completed a 
higg fem assessment, 
representing 86% of our 
supply chain by value (tier 1 and 2). 96 
suppliers’ results were verified, with  
an average score of 51, improving on 
2019's average score of 45.
our brands vero moda, object and selected became 
some of the first fashion brands to produce garments at 
market scale from renewcell’s fibre circulose®, which is 
made from discarded textiles, such as production waste and 
worn-out garments.
by the end of 2020, herprojecttm programmes had reached  
81,975 people in bestseller’s supply chain. the launch of 
heressentials to combat covid-19 was intergral to this progress, 
which saw us achieve our fashion fwd goal of reaching 
as a member of act, we have actively 
participated in setting industrial  
structures and mechanisms for enhancing 
social dialogue and freedom of association 
in the global textile supply chain. 
we launched our people’s voice – our 
employee engagement survey – and 
achieved an engagement score of 79, 
which is seven points higher than the 
external global benchmark. 
219
100,000
workers in 
march 2021.
our recycled polyester use 
accounted for 10% of all polyester 
sourced. selected and y.a.s 
increased their recycled polyester 
consumption to respectively 33% 
and 25% of their overall supply. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
3
sustainability report 2020
bestseller
fashion fwd
3
sustainability report 2020
while the initial shock of covid-19 has worn off, our indus-
try – like global society – continues to grapple with massive 
challenges related to the virus. the textile supply chain 
remains seriously disrupted. while we have adapted quick-
ly to the market, allowing us to continue submitting orders 
and help keep the wheels in motion at many of our suppli-
ers, we must accept that the effects of the global pandemic 
will be long-lasting. our social sustainability work remains 
as important as ever to foster safe working environments 
and fair outcomes for everyone in our supply chain. 
 
we never doubted that we would make it through the global 
pandemic. it was just a matter of how we would manage it in 
the best way possible.  there is no learning experience like 
a crisis, and in bestseller, we have learned a lot. one of 
the more important lessons has been that we must accept a 
certain amount of uncertainty and the best response is to 
be proactive. 
there are a number of similarities between the pandem-
ic and the broad planetary crisis. we cannot build walls 
strong or high enough, and neither can we run away fast 
or far enough, to simply avoid the global challenges we are 
facing – or are about to face. we live in a connected world, 
which makes contemporary challenges and opportunities 
so multifaceted that our approach must be collaborative, 
and our solutions must be holistic. everyone has a respon-
sibility to do their part. our actions must be based on the 
a message from  
our ceo & owner 
as we look back on 2020 and reflect on a momentous year, it is striking – for 
all the talk of ‘a new normal’ – how much the values that define bestseller 
remain relevant. honesty, loyalty, a strong work ethic, a willingness to 
cooperate and an inquisitive mind – all of these factors are as important 
today as they were when bestseller began almost half a century ago. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
4
sustainability report 2020
measurable needs of our planet, which is why we are pleased 
our climate goals have been approved by the science based 
targets initiative in early 2021.
with 2021 well underway, we are investing even more time 
and resources to create a digital and sustainable future for 
our company. the consequences of depleting our natural 
resources are becoming ever clearer and even though we 
do not have all the solutions we cannot allow that uncer-
tainty to paralyse us.
our sustainability strategy fashion fwd continues to guide 
us, and its overall impact will be dependent on us striking 
the right balance between short-term wins and long-term 
focus.  we must keep an open mind and remain innovative 
about how we think about our future business, collaborating 
across our industry and value chain to identify and develop 
more sustainable solutions.  bestseller is committed to 
adopting and investing in innovation to futureproof our 
company. the establishment of fashion fwd lab in 2020 
was a critical step in our innovation work, as it supports 
innovators and entrepreneurs so they can tailor their con-
cepts for widespread use in the fashion industry. 
markets are continuously changing and our customers’ 
expectations are higher than ever. we have to remain 
focused on continuously improving and using our business 
to create positive impact. by staying loyal to our suppliers, 
business partners and customers, working hard, collab-
orating throughout our industry and seeking out new 
solutions, we can build a more sustainable and prosperous 
future together. 
anders holch povlsen 
bestseller's ceo & owner
“we live in a connected world, which 
makes contemporary challenges and 
opportunities so multifaceted that our approach  
must be collaborative, and our solutions 
must be holistic. everyone has a responsibility 
to do their part. our actions must be based on 
the measurable needs of our planet.”
anders holch povlsen, 
bestseller's ceo & owner
bestseller
fashion fwd
5
sustainability report 2020
table of
contents
07 
about bestseller
08  
bringing fashion fwd
10  
climate positive
24  
circular by design
45  
fair for all
65  
supporting the sustainable  
 
 
 
 
   
development goals (sdgs) 
67 
multi-stakeholder  
 
partnerships &  
 
collaborations
bestseller
fashion fwd
6
sustainability report 2020
bestseller is an international, family-owned fashion 
company with a strong foundation.
founded by the holch povlsen family in 1975, bestseller 
has always remained true to the family values at its core. 
we are proud of our origins and we work hard every day 
to bring people and fashion together to achieve positive 
results for everyone.
bestseller has a g loba l reach , w ith produc ts for  
men and women of all ages. from clothes to accessories, 
bestseller brings fashion to our customers across the 
world. our brands include jack & jones, vero moda, 
on ly, m a m a l ic ious , v i l a , ob j e c t, se l e c t e d,  
junarose, y.a.s, noisy may, pieces and name it.
about 
bestseller
bestseller at a glance
70 
markets  
 
2,600  
branded  
chain stores  
 
17,000  
people  
 
15,000  
multi-brand  
and department  
stores  
 
24.1  
billion dkk  
net turnover 2019/20
bestseller
fashion fwd
7
sustainability report 2020
bringing 
fashion fwd  
until we 
are climate 
positive,  
fair for 
all and 
circular  
by design
at bestseller , we want to make our company and 
our industry more sustainable, so we can help create 
the kind of future we all need and safeguard the world 
we l ive i n . we a r e embrac i n g c ha n ge becau se t he 
challenges we face are diverse, complex and considerable. 
 
as a significant actor in the global fashion industry,  
bestseller is well-positioned to take responsibility, 
do our part and create genuine change. our approach is 
a holistic one where we work to integrate sustainability 
into all elements of our business. by embracing innovation, 
mitigating risks and increasing transparency, we can 
future-proof our company and inspire positive social, 
economic and environmental progress. 
to help us chart our course we have developed our north 
star: bringing fashion fwd until we are climate positive, 
fair for all and circular by design. this is our ultimate 
ambition – a guiding light for our fashion fwd strategy and 
our future sustainability efforts, as we strive to become 
as sustainable as possible, as soon as possible. we are 
convinced that we need to outline our chosen destination, 
so we can plan the route to get there. we need to operate our 
business ethically, produce our products responsibly, build 
a resilient supply chain, greatly respect everyone involved 
and provide value to our stakeholders. we will continue to 
accelerate each year and we will not stop until bestseller 
has achieved its ultimate ambition.
“sustainability is increasingly 
a part of how we see ourselves 
at bestseller and this 
shift in mentality is critical 
to our company’s future. 
at bestseller, sustainability 
means creating long-term 
value and prosperity.” 
dorte rye olsen,  
sustainability manager,  
bestseller.
climate positive
our business will have a positive impact on our planet’s climate across  
our value chain by removing more greenhouse gases than we emit.
fair for all
everyone working in our value chain will be empowered by jobs that are safe, 
that protect human rights and provide fair incomes and opportunities for 
everyone to reach their personal potential.
circular by design
our business model will be based on design principles that prioritise efficiency 
and the reuse of resources at every level, from fibres to water and chemicals to 
post-consumer, in order to minimise waste and keep resources in use.
bestseller
fashion fwd
8
sustainability report 2020
our 
four focus 
areas 
creating fwd  
making fwd
delivering fwd
engaging fwd 
as part of our sustainability strategy fashion fwd, we 
split our sustainability work into four focus areas: cre-
ating fwd, making fwd, engaging fwd and delivering 
fwd. within each of these areas, we have set short and 
medium-term goals to achieve by 2025, while our holistic 
approach to sustainability means that some themes cut 
across the entire strategy. 
 
creating fwd focuses on the materials in our products, 
making fwd relates to the environmental footprint of 
our operations and supply chain, engaging fwd sets our 
direction for social sustainability and delivering fwd 
refers to product use, circularity and packaging.
in addition to these four focus areas, our fashion fwd 
strategy also underline the central role innovation will 
play in preparing bestseller for a more sustainable 
future. the strategy’s launch marked the birth of invest 
fwd – a sustainable investment platform run in collabo-
ration with bestseller’s parent company heartland. 
our commitment to finding, funding and supporting inno-
vative and disruptive solutions has since been expanded 
with the development of fashion fwd lab – bestseller’s 
sustainability innovation hub. 
stakeholder  
engagement
at bestseller , we ack nowledge that collaboration  
will be critical to creating a sustainable reality for the 
fash ion industr y. understand ing and engag ing w ith 
our stakeholders is therefore essential. we categorise  
our stakeholders as those individuals, groups and organ-
isations that influence our business and that we have an 
impact on. our stakeholders include – but are not neces-
sarily limited to – colleagues, suppliers, workers, civil soci-
ety, industry associations, customers/wholesalers, retail-
ers, end-consumers, peers, policy makers and the media. 
in practice, we engage with our stakeholders in a variety 
of ways – f r om sm a l ler - sca le me et i n g s , i nter v iews 
a nd work shops to i ndust r y-level event s a nd mu lt i- 
stakeholder initiatives and organisations. bestseller 
is an active member of the follow ing industr y-w ide 
c ol l ab or at ion s : t he su s t a i n able appa r e l c oa l it ion 
(sac) and the apparel & footwear international rsl 
m a n a g e m e nt  wo rk i n g  g r oup  ( a f i r m ) ,  t h e  b e t te r 
cotton in it iat ive ( bci ), organ ic cotton accelerator 
(o c a ) ,  et h i c a l  tr a d e  i n it i at i v e  ( e t i )  a n d  te x t i le 
e xcha nge ( t e), t he ba ng ladesh accord on fi r e a nd 
building safety (accord) and action collaboration 
transformation (act). (see page 67).
bestseller
fashion fwd
9
sustainability report 2020
climate 
positive
our business will have a positive 
impact on our planet’s climate across 
our value chain by removing more 
greenhouse gases than we emit.
2021
2020
2025
2025
climate positive
goals
we will set science-based goals 
on greenhouse gas emissions. 
in 2018, we have officially 
committed to set these goals 
through the science based 
targets initiative.
we will set targets to 
safeguard future water 
resources.
our energy consumption 
in our owned and operated 
buildings globally will be 
reduced by 30%.
we will have 100% approved 
and traceable chemistry in 
our core products.
75% of all product orders will 
be consolidated in suppliers 
that are highly rated in our 
sustainability evaluation.
our owned and operated 
buildings globally will be 
powered by 100% renewable 
energy.
bestseller
fashion fwd
11
sustainability report 2020
bestseller is committed to becoming climate positive 
through our work in making fwd, creating fwd and 
delivering fwd. to achieve this ultimate ambition, we 
must produce and operate leaner, significantly and contin-
uously reducing the energy, water and chemicals we use 
and the waste we create. collaboration and transparency 
throughout our supply chain will be vital to our success, as 
this is where we have the biggest environmental impact. 
to meet the needs of our planet and remove more green-
house gases than we emit, our approach must be based 
on the most up-to-date science and data available. that 
is why bestseller has set greenhouse gas reduction 
goals through the science based targets initiative and 
has committed to the fashion pact. we cannot simply set 
incremental goals – we must find a way to operate and 
grow our business in line with science.
in this chapter, we will outline our progress with regards 
to climate impact, energy consumption, as well as other 
environmental impacts such as chemical and water man-
agement in our supply chain.
committed 
to becoming 
climate 
positive 
as a global fashion company, we have a responsibility to transform our 
business so that our environmental footprint is in line with the needs of 
our planet. some of the biggest challenges our world faces are related to 
our planet’s natural resources and we must rethink the way we consume 
them throughout our value chain.
bestseller
fashion fwd
12
sustainability report 2020
when launching fashion fwd in 2018, a key focus was to 
commit to a climate strategy with concrete targets to reduce 
greenhouse gases (ghg). we therefore announced that  
be s t se l l e r h ad of f ic i a l ly c om m it te d to s e t t i n g 
science-based targets (sbts) on ghg through the sci-
ence based targets initiative (sbti) – a critical step 
on the way to creating a solid climate strateg y and 
ach iev i ng the fol low i ng goa l : by 2020, we w i l l set 
science -based goa ls on g reen house gas em issions. 
 
the sbti is the leading corporate collaboration for ambi-
tious action on climate change and is focused on helping 
companies reduce their carbon emissions in line with 
the paris agreement. in 2019, bestseller reiterated its 
commitment to sbts and reducing our climate impact 
by becoming an inaugural member of the fashion pact. 
while bestseller is already on its way to reducing emis-
sions in its owned and operated buildings through renewa-
ble energy and reduction in energy consumption, this only 
constitutes around five percent of the company’s total ghg 
emissions (see page 15). the majority of our climate impact 
comes from scope 3 – our supply chain, the transportation 
and distribution of our products and the consumer use 
phase (washing and caring for our products).
2020 progress & impact
in late 2020, we sent our sbts to the sbti for approval to 
achieve our aforementioned fashion fwd goal, concluding 
a year-long project of data collection to set our baseline, 
analysis to understand our climate impact and subsequent 
modelling of our targets. our targeted reductions are 
based on our baseline year of 2018.
a company’s targets can only be validated if they are in 
line with the paris agreement, and bestseller’s sbts 
were approved in early 2021, as they are aligned with the 
most ambitious goal of a 1.5°c pathway.
aligning 
our business 
with our 
planet
“the science based targets 
initiative is the major league for 
climate targets, and when we 
set our fashion fwd ambition 
to ultimately be climate positive, 
we knew we had to do it right. 
the size of our company and 
our ambitions obligate us to act 
and push for change, which is 
why we committed to tackling 
climate change through science 
already in 2018.”
anders holch povlsen, 
bestseller's ceo & owner
bestseller
fashion fwd
13
sustainability report 2020
use of sold 
products
raw 
materials
own
operations
transport
garment
manufacturing
yarn & fabric
production
end of 
life
* scope 1 (2 %) and 2 (3 %) include electricity use, heating and cooling  
of buildings and use of vehicles owned or controlled by bestseller.
** scope 3 (95 %) includes raw material, yarn and fabric production,  
garment manufacturing, transport, packaging, use of sold product  
and the product’s end-of-life – the extended value chain.
going forward
in the coming years, bestseller will report transpar-
ently on its sbt progress. we do not have all the answers 
yet and we will learn as we go but initiatives are already 
being developed and internal goals and roadmaps are being 
adopted to set a direction for how we will reach our overall 
sbts by 2030. for example, we have developed a programme, 
which focuses on reducing energy consumption and car-
bon emissions in our stores (see page 15), while another 
programme – known as environment fwd – is being put 
together to tackle our supply chain (see page 18). however, 
our sbts will require massive internal effort and signifi-
cant collaboration with our partners if we are to succeed.
apart from our ongoing work to source more circular and 
sustainable materials, bestseller will focus on increas-
ing traceability and transparency with regards to the fabric 
mills that weave, knit and dye bestseller’s materials due 
to the considerable impact related to materials processing. 
improving our data management– such as supplier and 
facility business data improvement and facility energy data 
verification – will also help us target our efforts.
bestseller is also looking to align our climate targets 
with science-based targets for nature – a new concept 
developed by sbti that is focused on global water systems 
and biodiversity.
climate impact 2018
calculations show that bestseller’s total ghg inventory across our entire value chain  
reached approximately 2 million tonnes co2e in the base year of 2018.
bestseller’s approved sbts are: 
 
bestseller commits  
to reduce absolute scope  
1 and 2 ghg emissions by 
 
by 2030 compared to  
its base year of 2018*
 50%  
bestseller commits to 
reduce absolute scope 3 ghg 
emissions from purchased 
goods and services and 
upstream and downstream 
transportation by 
over the same timeframe**
 30%  
of bestseller’s greenhouse 
gas emissions come exclusively 
from scope 3
95%
bestseller
fashion fwd
14
sustainability report 2020
reducing our direct 
carbon footprint
at bestseller, we believe that 
all actors in society must work 
collaboratively towards a low 
carbon future for our planet. with 
our stores, distribution centres, 
warehouses and offices across the 
globe, we can reduce our direct 
footprint with energy reduction 
targets and renewable energy.
as part of fashion fwd, bestseller has set two goals relat-
ed to our direct energy consumption and carbon emissions:
by 2021, our owned and operated buildings globally will 
be powered by 100 percent renewable energy. 
by 2025, our energy consumption in our owned and 
operated buildings globally will be reduced by 30 percent. 
rega rd i n g t he f i r st goa l , i n 2 01 9, we a n nounced a 
partnership between bestseller’s parent company 
heartland and renewable electricity provider better 
energy to build a 200 megawatt (mw) capacity subsidy-
free solar plant. this solar plant will produce more than 
the equivalent of bestseller’s entire global energ y 
consumption for owned and operated buildings under a 
power purchase agreement (ppa) with bestseller.
the solar plant will cover our use of electricity in the europe-
an union and european economic area in line with the re100 
market boundary criteria. as bestseller also has owned 
and operated facilities outside europe, we are currently look-
ing into sourcing renewable energy to cover these regions. 
there are synergies between energy reductions and renew-
able energy. by sourcing renewable energy, we offset the 
emissions related to our electricity consumption, and by 
reducing our use of energy – and thereby decreasing our 
energy demand – we increase the amount of renewable 
energy on the market. 
2020 progress & impact
in august 2020, we took a significant step towards 100 per-
cent renewable energy for our owned and operated build-
ings, as construction of the new solar power facility began 
in the municipality of holstebro. it will provide additional 
green energy to the electricity network when the solar plant 
is connected to the grid, which is expected to be in 2021.
bestseller made a number of important changes to our 
e-commerce and logistics operations in 2020 as part of our 
focus on reducing energy consumption and carbon emissions. 
in e-commerce, we focused on packaging, transportation and 
zero product waste. for example, all waste cardboard and plas-
tic packaging is collected, compacted and sold to commercial 
recyclers. we also use extra tall boxes to take full advantage 
of the height of transport trailers. in addition, none of our left-
over products are put into landfill or incinerated– clearance 
products are offered through various distribution channels 
and tarnished products are sold to second-hand stores.
reducing the cost and environmental impact of heating in 
logistics was a priority last year, with a particular focus 
on better solutions for the operational offices at our ware-
houses and distribution centres. 
going forward
in 2021, we will put our second fashion fwd goal of reduc-
ing our owned and operated energy consumption in focus. 
having calculated a baseline from 2018 data, we are work-
ing hard to reduce our energy consumption by 30 percent.
a key step will be the adoption and implementation of 
our stores fwd programme. to reduce our stores’ energy 
consumption, the focus in 2021 will be on lighting, which 
typically accounts for half a store’s electricity use. further 
down the line, bestseller will also focus on hvac (heat-
ing, ventilation & air conditioning) systems and phasing 
out gas, oil and refrigerants from 2025. our distribution 
centres, warehouses and offices will have a similar focus.
in e-commerce, we are putting an end to the use of plastic 
delivery bags. as we begin our transition to paper delivery 
bags, all of our current plastic delivery bags – which con-
tain at least 50 percent recycled plastic – will be replaced 
by an alternative made from at least 80 percent recycled 
material. bestseller is also working on co₂ compen-
sation systems for all our e-commerce deliveries having 
successfully adopted this in switzerland, as well as transi-
tioning to vehicles with a lower carbon footprint powered 
by bio-diesel, hydrogen or electricity.
bestseller will continue to upgrade and optimise our 
warehouses and distribution centres to reduce energy 
consumption. for example, we are upgrading the lighting 
in our warehouses to smart led and introducing – where 
possible – high-speed doors to minimise heat loss.
bestseller
fashion fwd
15
sustainability report 2020
2018:
2019:
2020:
2018:
2019:
2020:
36
45
51
49
80
our biggest environmental impact 
comes from the manufacturing 
of our products. to reduce the 
consumption of water, chemicals and 
energy, as well as the production of 
waste, we must work closely with 
our supply chain partners for our 
mutual benefit. 
to meet our targets on climate, water, and circularity, our 
products need to be consolidated with suppliers that are 
open and willing to move forward with us on this journey. 
each supplier must meet our environmental management 
requirements, which outline standards and expectations 
on chemical and environmental management in the supply 
chain. our local chemical & environment teams monitor 
each supplier’s performance through our factory stand-
ards programme (see page 49). the environmental section 
of the rating applied to each supplier will serve as part of 
the foundation for fulfilling the following fashion fwd 
goal: by 2025, 75% of all product orders will be consolidat-
ed in suppliers that are highly rated in our sustainability 
evaluation.
our focus is on empowering suppliers to own and improve 
their sustainability performance. we provide suppliers 
with training, so they can self-report their sustainability 
credentials and performance on an ongoing basis. our local 
chemical & environmental teams also provide guidance 
and support during routine inspections and afterwards. 
one tool we use is the higg facility environmental mod-
ule (higg fem) index, which is designed for the apparel 
and footwear industry to measure performance across 
seven impact areas, environmental management systems, 
water use, wastewater, chemical use, waste management, 
energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. higg fem is an 
industry-wide tool developed by the sustainable apparel 
coalition (sac). (see page 67).
in china, bestseller cooperates with the institute of 
public affairs (ipe), a non-profit environmental research 
organisation based in beijing that monitors many aspects 
of environmental supply chain management and records 
suppliers’ performance on a public database. 
2020 progress & impact
since 2017, we have found that factories using the higg fem 
for the first time often struggled with data management 
and tracking. bestseller works with independent third 
parties to verify our suppliers’ higg fem self-assessment 
results, and there has often been a wide gap between the 
self-assessment and the verified data.
this year however, we saw great progress with only a two 
percent point difference between the average self-assess-
ment score and the average verified score.  
  
in 2020, 219 tier 1 and tier 2 (preferred materials suppliers) 
suppliers completed a higg fem assessment. they covered 
86 percent of our orders by value. verification of these 
scores was difficult to secure due to the pandemic and each 
country’s restrictions. however, 96 suppliers’ results were 
verified, with an average score of 51. this was an improve-
ment on the past two years’ average scores.  
supplier   
ownership 
environmental 
management 
average  
higg fem  
verified score
higg fem coverage  
- supply chain by value (%) 
(tier 1 and tier 2 preferred material suppliers)
 
86
bestseller
fashion fwd
16
sustainability report 2020
our local teams conducted 29 training sessions with our 
suppliers, with over 1,150 participants attending courses on 
topics including higg fem, chemical management, waste-
water management, and environmental best practices.  
having joined ipe’s automated supply chain environ-
mental management tool – the blue ecochain system 
– in 2019, we began using it to supervise our suppliers in 
2020. on top of that, bestseller made disclosing envi-
ronmental performance data to the ecochain a require-
ment for any new suppliers onboarded into our supply 
chain. with the support of our colleagues, our suppliers 
remediated 14 pollution issues, which were verified by 
ipe’s auditors. 
building on last year’s progress, this year 24 of our sup-
pliers in china disclosed prtr (pullutant release and 
transfer register) data to the ipe. by publishing an annual 
prtr data form, suppliers demonstrate they are moni-
toring their overall environmental footprint and setting 
targets to reduce their impacts. 
bestseller also improved its score on ipe’s corporate 
information transparency index (citi), a scoring system on 
the environmental management systems and engagement. 
in 2020, we rose seven places in the rankings, and were 32nd 
out of 540 evaluated chinese and multinational brands. 
bestseller joined ipe’s global brand map initiative, a 
publicly accessible map where you can see 95 of our suppli-
ers’ environmental performance in real time and a history 
of our remediation actions. the factory list covers 16 tier 1 
garment/finished product factories with washing/dyeing 
process, 30 tier 1 cut-pack factories and 49 tier 2 materials 
manufacturers, representing roughly 80 percent* of our 
purchase volume in china.  
2018
2019
2020
citi rank
43/306
39/438
32/540
over the past year, bestseller has engaged consultants 
to accurately map our environmental footprint via scoping 
exercises and create development plans on engagement 
priority and regional reduction opportunities. this will 
serve as the foundation for setting science-based targets 
for our supply chain.
going forward
in 2021, bestseller will continue to use higg fem as a tool 
to track and support environmental management improve-
ments across our supply chain. we also aim to integrate ipe 
performance data into our factory standards programme 
grading matrix (see page 49). this will mean that if a sup-
plier has an outstanding environmental violation on ipe or 
doesn’t report prtr data as required, they will score poorly. 
in connection with our overall focus on science-based tar-
gets, we will also be developing science-based targets for 
our supply chain (see page 13). 
29  
training sessions  
with our suppliers,  
with over  
1,150 
participants
* it is difficult to provide an exact figure regarding our suppliers and factories in china because contracts 
and partnership between bestseller brands and suppliers change over the course of the year.
bestseller ranked 32nd  
of 540 in the citi evaluation
bestseller
fashion fwd
17
sustainability report 2020
environment 
fwd pilot 
in bangladesh 
 
this year, in collaboration with bangladeshi consul- 
tant eri, bestseller has created a programme to 
partner with our suppliers in bangladesh to make our 
supply chain more sustainable. our plan is to have 
sustained engagement with suppliers that focuses 
not just on assessing their environmental creden-
tials, but training teams in hard skills like chemical 
management and soft skills like presentation and 
communication skills. 
the aim is to create a knowledge and skill base to 
protect and advocate for environmental stewardship 
within the supply chain. over the next two years, all 
of our key suppliers in bangladesh will be trained on 
how to assess environmental performance over mul-
tiple sessions, provided with data on their factories’ 
performances, and work together to find solutions 
and remediate issues. over the following two years 
of training sessions and assessments, factory lead-
ership will be encouraged to address issues raised in 
the assessments. at the end of the period, the focus 
will shift to giving the participants the opportunity 
to discuss their experiences with other factories and 
share best practices.
starting in february 2021, key suppliers in bangla-
desh will be introduced to the programme and pro-
vide feedback on how it should be implemented. from 
there, we will schedule and conduct eight workshops 
with each factory over two years covering technical, 
environmental, soft skills and leadership. the train-
ing areas will be determined by a needs assessment. 
examples of potential training areas: 
- 
resource efficient production and management
- 
chemical management
- 
higg fem
- 
environment management plan/environment  
 
management systems 
- 
leadership, soft-skill development and high-level
  
communications 
- 
steam engineering and equipment
- 
 energy efficient equipment and process
 
improvements
there will also be four knowledge sharing sessions 
toward the end of the two-year period where teams 
from each factory share and present their experiences, 
hurdles and how they overcame them. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
18
sustainability report 2020
water is a vital and more or 
less constant component in 
textile production and garment 
manufacture, and the fashion 
industry’s negative impact on 
global waterways is substantial. 
bestseller is committed to 
exploring and sourcing more 
sustainable materials and adopting 
new production techniques to 
reduce our water use and safeguard 
water sources for the future.
the use of water in the global fashion value chain is wide-
spread: from crop irrigation to the dyeing of fabric, and the 
washing of garments. as such, bestseller’s approach to 
water stewardship is comprehensive. we focus on sourcing 
more sustainable materials that involve more efficient water 
use in their production, while also cooperating with suppliers 
to promote more responsible water management. additional-
ly, our membership of the fashion pact – which has a focus 
on oceans – supports our overall ambitions regarding water.
as part of fashion fwd, bestseller set a goal that: 
by 2021, we will set targets to safeguard future water 
resources. while our focus on water stewardship is noth-
ing new, framing a more explicit water strategy will only 
help to address our water risks and opportunities in a 
more efficient way. we are a member of the alliance for 
water stewardship (aws), which has developed a standard 
framework for major water users to understand their water 
use and impacts and create holistic benefits within a river 
catchment area. bestseller’s use of the framework is 
just one example of how we are working with stakeholders 
to develop strategies to improve our water impact.
2020 progress & impact
in 2020, we have continued to focus on reducing our water 
impact throughout our business. this includes identifying 
new dyeing and washing techniques in the production of 
our denim, using higg fem to track and improve our sup-
pliers’ water impact, as well as prioritising raw materials 
with a more sustainable water footprint – such as organic 
cotton. (see page 23 and 27).
additionally, bestseller has had a clear focus on efflu-
ent management in 2020. effluent is a by-product of vari-
ous garment production processes, as the water used can 
contain pollutants such as dyes, dissolved solids, and toxic 
metal traces at the end of the process.
although most effluent is treated at effluent treatment 
plants (etp) within the factories, the process does result 
in leftover sludge that typically ends up in landfill and can 
leak into the water system. 
one solution is to reuse textile mill sludge in the making 
of cement. bestseller has partnered with bangladesh’s 
only integrated cement plant that can transform etp 
sludge this way – the lafarge surma chhatak plant – to 
safely dispose of our suppliers’ waste. by the end of 2020, 
eight suppliers, including gms composite limited – one of 
our largest suppliers, had signed up to the scheme, which 
is run by one of the plant’s subsidiaries – geocycle. 
going forward
in the coming year, bestseller will support more suppli-
ers in signing up to the geocyle project. geocyle already has 
a similar initiative in india and, if more suppliers sign up in 
bangladesh, geocycle will be able to invest in vital infra-
structure such as specially-designed transport vehicles and 
storage facilities. 
significantly, the experience we have gained from this 
project and our other water-focused initiatives will also 
serve as the foundation of a new water strategy that we 
plan to complete in 2021 to achieve our fashion fwd goal. 
we are mapping our water use throughout our value chain, 
identifying risks and setting a baseline for our future 
targets.
for example, with three of our suppliers in karachi, paki-
stan having begun working with aws’ standard framework 
in 2020, we are reviewing their experiences to identify how 
they could potentially be applied to other water-stressed 
regions in our supply chain. 
“we are very happy with this service 
offered by geocycle because it gives 
us the ability to safely dispose of 
these hazardous waste products. we 
are encouraging all of our suppliers 
to sign up, with the aim of making 
this an industry-wide solution for 
the country. bangladesh is a small 
and densely populated country and 
we hope this new initiative will help 
us better protect our waterways and 
all those who depend on them.” 
dewan nurul islam, chemical & 
environment manager in bangladesh, 
bestseller.
watching  
over our 
water
we focus on sourcing more 
sustainable materials that 
involve more efficient water 
use in their production, while 
also cooperating with suppliers. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
19
sustainability report 2020
controlling our 
chemical use
chemicals are used in each stage of the production of gar-
ments and footwear. as well as working hard to monitor 
what goes into the products at the start of the supply chain, 
we have a thorough testing programme to ensure all prod-
ucts meet our requirements. our restricted substances 
list (rsl) and packaging restricted substances list 
(prsl) catalogue chemicals that are banned and restricted 
in our final products. it is updated annually based on the 
latest legislation, as well as precautionary principles and 
industry best practice. 
through our chemical testing programme, we systemat-
ically test our products and materials at certified global 
independent laboratories approved by bestseller to 
ensure full compliance with our requirements, and rework 
those that do not meet these requirements. 
 
2020 progress & impact  
our testing programme tested a total of 8,044 different 
styles in 2020, resulting in a failure rate of 6.5 percent. 
this is a rise compared to last year, and largely due to the 
fact that our manufacturers’ own supply chains were dis-
rupted by covid-19. this meant, for example, that if chem-
icals or raw materials were no longer available, a factory 
could inadvertently replace them with materials that do 
not meet our standards.  
we also upgraded our internal chemical testing data manage-
ment so that all the test data is now uniform and structured. 
this new data platform will enable us to pinpoint areas for 
improvement and help us identify materials, chemicals, 
suppliers or countries where we are struggling in terms of 
compliance, enabling us to be more proactive in flagging 
problems and working on solutions to address them.  
  
in 2020, bestseller started a project to reduce volatile 
organic compounds (voc) in our products – vocs are emit-
ted from certain solids or chemical products and can have 
adverse health or environmental effects. we are exploring 
numerous options for addressing this issue at multiple 
points along our supply chain: in production, transporta-
tion and during storage. 
one initiative that is currently being trialled is a voc- 
adsorbing bag developed by swiss specialty chemical com-
pany clariant. clariant’s adsorbents are based on a natural-
ly-occurring, non-toxic clay with a unique surface structure, 
which is dried as granulate and contained in air-permeable 
sachets or bags. because vocs can accumulate every time 
manufactured goods are stored in enclosed spaces, in our tri-
al we are placing clariant’s voc-adsorbing bags in contain-
ers before they are shipped from china to our warehouse 
in denmark to see whether we can reduce the potential 
exposure of shipment handlers, merchants, and consumers 
to vocs from the enclosed manufactured products. 
 
going forward 
in 2021, we will continue to prioritise areas of concern for 
product safety. with our new data platform, we will be more 
responsive and proactive in collaborating with suppliers, 
laboratories and chemical managers. we will also be focus-
ing on ensuring our processes align so that all our stake-
holders fully understand our requirements.
 
afirm
bestseller is a member of the afirm group whose mission 
is to reduce the use and impact of harmful substances in the 
apparel and footwear supply chain. through our engagement 
in afirm, we can align with the industry on restricted 
substances, the limits to be set, test methods and chemical 
investigations and responses to legislative updates. we 
have found that afirm provides a perfect forum to discuss 
chemical details, legislative changes and different materials. 
it is also a great resource for us and other companies like us, 
as it produces materials in various languages that we can 
use in training for suppliers and stakeholders. 
in 2021, we will continue to support afirm and participate 
in the associated working groups.
bestseller
fashion fwd
20
sustainability report 2020
bestseller has committed to removing the use of hazard-
ous chemicals from manufacturing sites during production, 
and we have a goal that by 2025 all our core products (core 
products represent 75% of our products by value) will have 
been produced using approved and traceable chemistry. to 
support the achievement of this goal, we have partnered 
with sustainability accelerator goblu to pilot an innovative 
platform attempting to bring transparent chemical usage 
to the global textile supply chain. 
 
bestseller’s suppliers are already required to maintain 
inventories of what chemical products are used on-site and 
provide a chemical inventory in a format agreed with our 
chemical team – a laborious and time-consuming task for 
each supplier.  
 
goblu’s solution is the bhive app – a digital solution for 
chemical inventories enabling factory managers to pho-
tograph a chemical’s label, which is then cross-checked 
across bhive’s database and bestseller’s restricted 
substances list, providing both the factory and the brand 
with detailed product information.
improving 
chemical 
inventory 
transparency 
“historically, the apparel  
industry model has been to  
check the chemical content of 
products after they have been  
made with chemical testing 
programmes. bhive brings 
transparency to the start of  
the supply chain, marking a big  
leap forward for the industry.”
lars doemer, 
co-founder of goblu. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
21
sustainability report 2020
bestseller was one of four companies to pilot bhive. bhive’s 
chemical database holds over 85,000 chemical products, includ-
ing information about each product’s environmental creden-
tials and certifications. each product in a factory’s inventory 
can be screened against a brands’ restricted substances list, 
ensuring full transparency on compliance performance.  
  
2020 progress & impact
 
in 2020, 71 wet processing units (wpus) activated accounts 
with bhive, with 25 of those completing the process to 
share their chemical inventories on the platform. being a 
digital solution, wpus could connect with bhive and begin 
the process without travelling for a face-to-face tutorial, 
minimising the risk of contracting or spreading covid-19.
of the almost 7,000 chemical products uploaded to chemical 
inventory lists in 2020, 74 percent were verified as meeting 
industry-standard requirements. this was an improvement 
on 2019 where 67 percent of all chemicals uploaded by 
wpus in our supply chain were verified as meeting indus-
try-standard requirements.
going forward  
bestseller’s suppliers are already expected to maintain 
chemical inventories and understand what chemical prod-
ucts are used on-site and whether they comply with our 
standards. in 2021, it will be a requirement that all suppliers 
with wpus to use bhive or provide a chemical inventory log 
in a format agreed with our chemical team.  
one of goblu’s aims for 2021 is to bring certification and 
auditing bodies on board to integrate bhive into their 
services and programmes, reducing the need for multiple 
on-site audits, a laborious and often repetitive process for 
suppliers.  
“not only are we able to be more transparent about the 
chemicals going into our products, but we are also raising the 
performance of our suppliers across the board, no matter what brands 
they produce for, taking leadership at an industry level in a very 
practical and impactful way.” 
felicity tapsell,  
responsible sourcing manager, bestseller.
 
 2019:
 18 
factories
 1,150 
chemical products  
uploaded
 67% 
met industry- 
standard  
requirements
 
 2020:
 25 
factories
 7,000 
chemical products  
uploaded
 74% 
met industry- 
standard  
requirements
bestseller
fashion fwd
22
sustainability report 2020
our denim  
evolution
 
denim has been central to bestseller’s business 
model for decades. it is stylish, timeless and versatile. 
unfortunately, traditional methods of denim prod-
uction can be harmful to the environment. our brands 
are therefore constantly analysing the denim they use 
and working with innovative denim manufacturers to 
identify ways to improve the jeans and other denim 
products they sell. 
jack & jones is the bestseller brand best known 
for its denim heritage. for the best part of a decade, 
jack & jones has been working on its low impact 
denim (lid) concept. this is a holistic approach that 
focuses on fibre composition, fabric dyeing and the 
finishing process. with a commitment to replacing 
all conventional processes with more sustainable 
alternatives, lid jeans are arguably some of the 
most sustainable on the market. in 2020, jack & 
jones further tightened the requirements for when 
a product can be categorised as lid. lid products 
accounted for approximately 15 percent of jack & 
jones’ denim production last year and acted as the 
brand’s showcase for what is possible within more 
sustainable denim.
at only, 2020 saw the launch of swan jeans – the 
brand’s most sustainable jeans to date. the jeans 
are certified by the nordic swan ecolabel and the 
eu ecolabel, which has evaluated the full lifecycle 
of swan jeans from raw materials to manufacturing 
and post-production waste. only re-evaluated every 
single production process in its development of swan 
jeans: all raw materials are either organic or recycled, 
the clean dyeing process uses minimal water, the trim 
and branding details are recycled and recyclable, and 
the wash involves low impact treatments.
selected reached two significant milestones with 
their denim in 2020. all cotton in their jeans is now 
organic, while all new jeans are also responsibly washed 
– selected’s finishing process that involves less water, 
less energy and less chemicals than regular methods.
our colleagues at name it have set themselves a goal 
of including styles from their better denim concept in 
every collection. in 2020, they took orders for around 
200,000 better denim pieces. better denim is name 
it’s comprehensive approach to more sustainable 
denim, which prioritises more sustainable materials 
and production processes for every element of the 
garment. it is made from a blend of organic cotton 
and recycled polyester, water in the washing process 
is recycled and advanced technologies like waste-heat-
recovery boilers are used.
bestseller
fashion fwd
23
sustainability report 2020
circular
by design
our business model will be based on design 
principles that prioritise efficiency and the reuse 
of resources at every level, from fibres to water 
and chemicals to post-consumer, in order to  
minimise water and keep resources in use.
2022
2023
2025
2025
2025
circular by design
goals
100% of our man-made 
cellulosic fibres will be 
sourced responsibly in 
line with industry best 
practice, such as the forest 
stewardship council (fsc).
100% of our wool will  
be sourced in line with  
industry best practice,  
such as the responsible  
wool standard (rws).
we will provide 
our customers and 
consumers with 
information on 
the environmental 
impacts of our core 
products, and we 
will show year-on-
year improvements.
we will have tested and 
implemented circular business 
models in selected key markets 
with relevant partners.
all consumer-facing 
packaging will be 100% 
reusable, recyclable or 
compostable.
we will source 50% of our 
polyester from recycled 
polyester or other more 
sustainable alternatives.
we will facilitate the 
development of more 
sustainable fibres and 
materials at market scale 
through innovation and  
industry collaborations.
we will have phased out  
single-use virgin plastic, 
wherever possible.
we will drive forward post-
consumer waste and circular 
infrastructure solutions, 
engaging in collaborative 
initatives to turn waste into 
valuable resources.
we will source 100% of 
our cotton from more 
sustainable alternatives. 
within our 100% more 
sustainable cotton 
supply, we will source 
30% from organic cotton.
bestseller
fashion fwd
25
sustainability report 2020
circular 
recycling 
technologies
digital  
traceability  
& integrity
digital  
 
technology
circular  
business  
models
circular  
materials  
and chemistry 
technology
f
e
e
d
s
t
o
c
k
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
r
a
w
 
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 d
e
s
i
g
n
 &
 
p
r
o
d
u
c
e 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
r
e
c
y
c
l
e
use
return to 
resource
sustainable 
materials 
the circular 
& digital 
business  
model
at bestseller, we are committed to a circular future. 
the fashion industry must move away from its traditional 
linear model of take-make-waste and embrace circularity 
where finite resources are protected and waste is elim-
inated. each year, it is estimated that less than one 
percent of material used to produce clothing is recycled 
into new clothing, representing a loss of more than 
usd 100 billion worth of materials*. 
to achieve our ultimate ambition of being circular 
by design, we are working towards a circular & digital busi-
ness model for bestseller. this is a disruptive approach 
that prioritises innovative solutions connecting nature, 
technology and fashion to create a sustainable future. we 
need new ways of thinking throughout our value chain and 
from all sections of our business. circular principles can 
already be seen in the way we are reusing our own textile 
waste to create new fibres, specifically designing products 
that can be repurposed or recycled, and identifying and 
prioritising production technologies that reuse and reduce 
water and chemicals. in this chapter, we will outline our 
work within creating fwd and delivering fwd with a 
focus on more sustainable materials, innovation, circular 
design, digitalisation and plastics and packaging.
*  a new textiles economy by ellen macarthur foundation and circular fibres initiative.
bestseller
fashion fwd
26
sustainability report 2020
bestseller
finished goods 
(cut-make-trim)
fabric (mills)
yarn (spinners)
lint co�on (fpos, traders)
seed co�on (fpos, farmers)
  conventional
  bci
  organic
cotton is natural and renewable, while its production also 
supports millions of people around the world. however, 
conventional cotton growing can have a considerable 
impact on the environment, which is why we are actively 
supporting more sustainable cotton farming practices and 
working towards only sourcing more sustainable alterna-
tives. bestseller’s more sustainable cotton portfolio 
consists of organic, recycled, cmia (cotton made in africa) 
and bci (better cotton initiative) cotton. 
bestseller has committed to sourcing 100 percent of our 
cotton from more sustainable sources by 2022 as part of 
our fashion fwd strategy. in addition, 30 percent of our 
more sustainable cotton supply must be organic by 2025. 
with our relatively high cotton footprint, we have a big 
opportunity to use our influence to promote change in the 
fashion industry and to stimulate both demand and supply 
of more sustainable cotton.  for example, bestseller 
has implemented a direct-to-farm approach to invest in 
the growth and integrity of the organic cotton industry 
and – by extension – secure our future supply. a direct-to-
farm approach helps protect farmers making the switch to 
organic cotton by ensuring the organic premium ends with 
them. with global demand for organic cotton increasing 
and far outweighing current supply, it is vital that brands 
like bestseller invest in the industry’s growth.
bestseller is a proud member of bci, which is the largest 
cotton sustainability programme in the world. with mem-
bers spanning the entire cotton value chain, bci focuses 
on training cotton farmers in more sustainable farming 
practices. licensed bci farmers produce cotton in a way 
that cares for the environment and follows decent work 
principles. the more better cotton we source, the greater 
impact we can achieve. by actively contributing to the bci 
growth and innovation fund, bestseller is also helping 
bci expand its work through strategic investments. better 
cotton is sourced via a system of mass balance and is not 
physically traceable to end products.
as our most important raw material by volume, cotton has been a 
key focus of bestseller’s transition to more sustainable materials 
for many years. in 2020, we again took significant strides forward.
more sustainable cotton
leading the way with 
fundamental fibre
84% more  
sustainable cotton  
(target 100%)
from  
seed to  
t-shirt  
direct-to-farm 
approach 
 2020 progress & impact
in 2020, 84 percent of the cotton bestseller sourced was 
more sustainable, with organic cotton accounting for 23 
percent. this is a considerable increase compared to 2019. 
our improvement in 2020 was recognised by the sustaina-
ble cotton ranking – an organisation committed to accel-
erating the demand and uptake of more sustainable cotton. 
bestseller was the biggest improver between 2017 and 
2020, achieving ‘leading the way’ status for the first time. 
we are one of 11 companies to achieve the sustainable cotton 
r a n k i ng’s h ighest c la ssi f icat ion . bestseller a l so 
achieved the highest possible score (4 points) for cotton 
in textile exchange’s corporate fiber & materials bench-
mark for 2020.
bestseller
fashion fwd
27
sustainability report 2020
76
name it:
67
selected:
66
y.a.s:
our brands have been integral to this transition, with a 
number of them focusing almost exclusively on organic 
cotton. to support the brands’ efforts and to invest in the 
growth of the organic cotton industry, bestseller offi-
cially became a partner of the organic cotton accelerator 
(oca) in 2020. oca is the only multi-stakeholder organisa-
tion fully dedicated to organic cotton. it is committed to 
bringing integrity, supply security and measurable social 
and environmental impact to organic cotton. through oca, 
bestseller signed agreements with two farm groups 
in india – totalling approximately 1,800 organic cotton 
farmers – to source 1,100 tonnes of organic cotton direct 
from farmers, which is the equivalent of eight percent of 
bestseller’s organic cotton consumption in 2020.
in addition, bestseller committed to purchasing cmia's 
new organic standard in 2020. while our order was not 
of the same magnitude as our oca agreement, the cmia- 
organic deal represents bestseller’s widespread dedi-
cation to direct-to-farm sourcing of organic cotton. cmia- 
organic cotton will be first used in some of our products 
in 2021.
our ongoing support of the bci growth and innovation 
fund contributed to bci farmer projects supporting 1.8 
million cotton farmers in asia and africa in the 2019-20 
growing season. we will continue this support and bci 
cotton will remain central to our more sustainable cotton 
sourcing strategy in 2021.
top 3 brands  
sourcing organic cotton 
by % of their total cotton 
consumption for 2020
through oca, bestseller 
signed agreements with two 
farm groups in india.
1,800  
organic farmers 
+ 
1,100 
tonnes of organic cotton  
sourced directly 
=  
8%  
of bestseller's organic  
cotton consumption in 2020
photo credit: stac
bestseller
fashion fwd
28
sustainability report 2020
vero moda  
items certified 
with the  
eu ecolabel 
 
in 2020, vero moda achieved eu ecolabel certifi-
cation for its jersey supply chain for three aware 
styles and sold 32,663 items carrying the label last 
year. the certified styles contained organic cotton, 
lenzing™ ecovero™ and/or tencel™ lyocell. 
generally known for certifying household items, 
the eu ecolabel is increasingly popular in the 
fashion industry as it is widely recognised as a 
label of environmental excellence, setting strict 
environmental and chemical requirements for 
products and services, while also promoting the 
circular economy. 
“this is the start of a 
learning process for vero 
moda and we are not 
stopping here. vero moda is 
aiming to have the majority 
of its jersey styles certified 
within the next couple of 
years. the circular mindset 
that eu ecolabel promotes 
is very important for us and 
central to vero moda’s 
sustainability journey.  
we are investigating other 
supply chains and additional 
certifications where we can 
see a global potential.” 
maria højholt jensen, sustainability 
responsible, vero moda. 
going forward
the efforts to transition from conventional cotton to 
more sustainable sources has unearthed challenges that 
bestseller will focus on in 2021. for example, as organic 
cotton is estimated to account for just one percent of the 
global cotton supply, and integrity and transparency of 
supply is becoming an ever-increasing priority throughout 
the marketplace, there is a lack of certainty around our 
ability to source enough organic cotton. bestseller has 
an ambition to further expand our direct-to-farm approach 
in 2021, with pakistan and turkey amongst the markets 
to be included. additionally, bestseller is looking into 
how we can further support farmers looking to transi-
tion from traditional cotton farming to organic methods.  
 
this conversion requires investment and commitment, 
as it typically takes three years for a farm’s soil to reach 
the level required before a crop can be labelled organic. 
in 2021, bestseller is therefore investigating how we 
could include this ‘in-transition’ cotton, which is grown 
from organic seeds and according to organic principles but 
isn’t officially certified ‘organic’, in our more sustainable 
cotton portfolio.
32,663  
items sold
dk/016/066
bestseller
fashion fwd
29
sustainability report 2020
bestseller brands use recycled polyester, cotton and 
wool when making their products, while we are also working 
with man-made cellulosic (mmc) fibres such as circulose® 
that use recycled cotton in their production. 
in our fashion fwd strategy, bestseller has set the 
following goal related to recycled polyester: by 2025, we 
will source 50 % of our polyester from recycled polyes-
ter or other more sustainable alternatives. polyester 
accounts for more than half of all the f ibres used in 
the textile and apparel industry, but it is based on non- 
renewable petroleum and it is non-biodegradable. whilst 
we see a role for polyester as a key fibre in the near term, 
we need to make every effort to minimise its negative 
impacts, as well as investigate alternative f ibres for 
long-term viability.
by using recycled polyester, we limit our climate impact 
by reducing our reliance on fossil fuels for the production 
of virgin polyester. 
the majority of recycled polyester is based on the recy-
cling of pet plastic bottles, but bestseller is also 
tracking innovation focused on textile-to-textile recy-
cling of post-consumer polyester garments, as this would 
be a major breakthrough for the fashion industry.
using recycled materials reduces our environmental impact. it 
diverts waste from landfill and gives it a second life, it reduces 
our consumption of water, energy and chemicals that are used  
to make virgin materials, and it reduces our co₂ emissions.
recycled materials
keeping resources  
in use for longer
bestseller
fashion fwd
30
sustainability report 2020
561,769  
discarded
plastic bottles
22,548  
#plasticchanger  
styles sold
jack & jones 
focuses on big 
impact
 
one area where our brands have made a quick 
and significant impact transitioning to recycled 
polyester has been in outerwear, with an initial 
focus on the lining and filling. for example, 
jack & jones has completed the shift to 100 
percent recycled polyester outerwear linings. this 
transition means each outerwear garment sold by 
jack & jones now includes up to 25 percent less 
virgin polyester.
jack & jones’ process started with a review of 
the brand’s supply chain to identify which major 
manufacturers could provide suitable recycled 
polyester, with their quality department heavily 
involved to ensure existing standards were met.
1 jacket  
= 21 bottles
 
to raise awareness of the global importance of 
reducing plastic use and plastic pollution, as well 
as promoting their work with recycled polyester, 
selected partnered with danish ngo plastic 
change in 2020. the partnership included the 
release of #plastichanger jackets for men and 
women, and a vest for men. each garment was made 
with a blend of recycled polyester that included 
the equivalent of between 20 and 26 discarded 
plastic bottles depending on the style. selected 
will continue the partnership in 2021.
“it made sense to start with 
linings, as they represent 
around 20-25 percent of the 
polyester we use on outerwear. 
having made the switch with 
linings, the next step will 
be our shell fabrics before 
we finally transition trims 
and padding. in the end, our 
ultimate goal is to make full 
garments in recycled polyester.” 
mikkel arentsen hinge 
product manager, 
jack & jones.
“we wanted to raise awareness of plastic pollution 
and promote more sustainable fibre options. our 
communication needed to be simple and visual. for 
example, we consistently used taglines like ‘1 jacket. 
21 bottles.’ based on the positive feedback we have 
received on the products, i would say that we have 
succeeded in getting our message across,” says 
louise lund, sustainability manager, selected. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
31
sustainability report 2020
25
33
selected:
10
bestseller:
y.a.s:
 
use of recycled 
polyester in 2020 (%)
use of  
recycled wool (%)
69
49
41
vero moda:
jack & jones:
selected:
an inaugural member of global fashion agenda’s circular 
fashion partnership – an initiative that aims to achieve a 
long-term, scalable transition to a circular fashion system. 
both projects are based in bangladesh and came under the 
umbrella of bestseller’s sustainable innovation plat-
form fashion fwd lab. (see page 36). 
the circular fashion partnership is focused on bang-
ladesh due to the significant amount of textile waste 
produced in the country and the fact that most of that 
waste is either exported or downcycled. it is estimated 
that bangladesh produces around 400,000 tonnes of 
textile waste per year but less than five percent is recy-
cled domestically.  
 
 
by facilitating circular  
commercial collaborations 
for its members, which 
include fashion brands,  
manufacturers and recyclers, 
the circular fashion  
partnership is looking  
to stimulate new systems  
that can convert pre- 
consumer fashion waste  
into new products.
2020 progress & impact
in 2020, we more than doubled our use of recycled polyester 
compared to 2019. recycled polyester accounted for 10 
percent of our overall supply, which puts us on track to 
achieve our 50 percent recycled polyester goal by 2025, 
according to our internal yearly targets. 
there remains a significant amount of work to do but our 
brands’ success stories from last year give us cause for 
optimism.
in terms of recycled cotton, we almost tripled our total 
consumption from 30,000kg to 111,000kg in 2020, although 
it still represents a relatively small proportion of our more 
sustainable cotton. bestseller initiated two key pro-
jects in 2020 with the aim of increasing our use of recycled 
cotton going forward.  
together with our biggest jersey supplier in bangladesh 
– gms composite knitting – bestseller teamed up with 
recycled cotton producer cyclo to create a system that 
turns our brands’ own textile cutting scraps into useable 
yarn and fabric. at an industry level, bestseller was also 
 
chemical testing for recycled materials
transitioning to clean and reliable sources of recycled 
m a t e r i a l s  i s  o n e  o f  o u r  fa s h i o n  f w d  g o a l s .  t h a t 
transition presents several challenges, however, including 
t he  la c k  o f  k n o wle d g e  ab out  t he  c he mi c al  c o nte nt 
within post-consumer recycled textiles. to address this, 
bestseller is participating in a large-scale study led 
by h&m group and inter ikea group to understand how 
post-consumer recycled textiles measure against existing 
chemical standards. 
in 2021, the study group will pool its test results and share 
its f indings. the goal is to develop an evidence-based 
action plan for the wider industry adoption of recycled 
textiles that meets strict chemical and safety standards.
having marginally increased our use of recycled wool 
from 2018 to 2019, bestseller achieved a significant rise 
in 2020. in gross terms, we doubled the amount of recycled 
wool sourced, while recycled wool increased its share of our 
overall wool use from 15 percent in 2019 to 35 percent in 2020. 
two of our biggest brands were key movers, with vero 
moda increasing their share of recycled wool from 25 
percent to 69 percent, while jack & jones went from 
a standing start to 49 percent. selected (41% recycled 
wool) also impressed, with their two best-selling suits now 
made from recycled polyester and recycled wool.
going forward
through our partnership with canopy, bestseller has 
committed to promoting the use of recycled feedstock in 
the production of more sustainable man-made cellulosics, 
which will continue in 2021.
we will also continue to investigate and develop oppor-
tunities to increase the use of recycled materials in our 
collections. this will include our ongoing focus on sus-
tainability innovation through the fashion fwd lab.
bestseller
fashion fwd
32
sustainability report 2020
more sustainable  
sourced mmc (%)
two brands  
contributed the most 
to sourcing more 
sustainable mmc  
in 2020 (%)
2019:
2020:
11
34
only:
vero moda:
32
54
man-made cellulosics (mmc) are the third most-used fibre 
for apparel, with a 6.2 percent share of total global use. 
while mmc fibres are plant-based, there are two major 
impacts related to their production.
firstly, the raw wood used for viscose – the most common 
mmc – often comes from unverified sources, meaning it 
could be illegally logged or originate from endangered  
forests, which contributes to deforestation. secondly, 
mmc fibres are not categorised as natural materials due to 
the chemical processing required to turn wood pulp into a 
fibre. conventional processing techniques of mmc fibres 
are water, energy and chemical intense. 
to work towards more sustainable mmc solutions both the 
fibre source and processing techniques need to be verified. 
preferred suppliers source and supply certified wood from 
sustainably managed forests or – alternatively – waste 
materials. secondly, they process the wood pulp in facil-
ities where chemical, energy and water use is controlled 
– ideally, in a closed-loop solution that recycles water and 
chemicals again and again – resulting in a lower environ-
mental impact. 
as part of fashion fwd, we set this goal related to mmc: 
bestseller has committed to responsibly sourcing  
100 percent of our mmc fibres in line with industry best 
practice, such as the forest stewardship council (fsc) 
by 2022. to help set a framework for achieving this goal, 
we have partnered with the environmental organisation 
canopy. we are continuously exploring, researching 
and adopting industry best practices and incorporating 
emerging and circular economy innovations to our sourc-
ing strategy. as such, we give preference to mmc fabrics 
containing at least 50 percent innovative fibre sources to 
replace virgin wood pulp. 
to accelerate our transition to more sustainable mmc, 
bestseller is focused on sourcing so-called branded 
mmc f ibres (e. g . lenzing™ ecov ero™, tencel™  
lyocell and l ivaeco by birla cellulose™ ) as their 
reduced impact is supported by verified data and they are 
traceable.
2020 progress & impact
bestseller’s commitment to more sustainable mmc 
was highlighted by two significant actions in 2020: we 
developed a forest protection policy and partnered with 
canopy, which focuses on conserving the world’s endan-
gered forests by harnessing the power of brand partners 
to transform unsustainable supply chains. as part of 
our commitment to canopy, we joined two of the organ-
isation’s initiatives – canopystyle and pack4good – and 
pledged to stop sourcing mmc and paper and packaging 
sourced from the habitats of endangered species, as well 
as ancient and endangered forests. this commitment is in 
line with our fashion fwd target to responsibly source 
100 percent of our mmc fibres by 2022. additionally, we 
began tracing the wood pulp sources in our supply chain.
as a canopystyle partner, bestseller has committed 
to sourcing all mmc from low-risk rated pulp suppliers, 
as defined by the canopy hot button annual report. as a 
first step, we traced the key wood pulp sources in our sup-
ply chain. this helps us identify strategic supply chain 
partners through our preferred supplier programme.
additionally, we continue to source branded more sus-
tainable mmc. after 11 percent of our mmc came from 
these sources in 2019, we increased that figure to 34 per-
cent in 2020. 
as a member of fashion for good, we also joined a pioneering 
consortium working on a solution to verify mmc fibres 
from preferred suppliers throughout the fashion supply 
chain using innovative blockchain technology. together 
with kering, bestseller has provided blockchain inno-
vator textilegenesis™ with access to its global viscose 
supply chain that spans eight countries to fully test the 
latter’s solution. 
man-made  
cellulosic fibres
committed to  
protecting ancient  
and endangered 
forests 
bestseller
fashion fwd
33
sustainability report 2020
going forward
to move forward on more sustainable mmc, we will con-
tinue to utilise a two-pronged approach – increasing our 
sourcing of the verified branded fibres and enhancing 
traceability in our supply chain to identify and promote 
viscose suppliers that live up to the canopy hot button 
standards. furthermore, in an effort to identify new more 
sustainable mmc options, bestseller is investigating 
two innovative fibres in 2021 as part of our fashion fwd 
lab. (see page 36).
firstly, bestseller is involved in the product devel-
opment phase of lenzing™'s is carbon neutral fibres. 
known as lenzing™ carbon-zero tencel™, they are 
biodegradable and certified carbonneutral® products with 
the emissions associated with their production, manufac-
turing and distribution having been calculated and offset. 
bestseller’s collaboration with lenzing™ means that 
five of our brands are involved in exploring and testing 
the capabilities of lenzing™ carbon-zero tencel™.
bestseller is also working with a materials science com-
pany called circular systems, which is developing a biofi-
bre called agraloop™ that is made from food-crop waste 
such as the trunks of banana trees or corn stalks, and only 
generates beneficial effluents. our brands are supporting 
circular systems with the development of agraloop™.
“traceability in the textile value 
chain is challenging due to high 
industry fragmentation and global 
supply chains. we see sustainability 
and traceability as two sides of 
the same coin and our purpose is 
to accelerate the realisation of 100 
percent sustainable fibres pledges  
by providing radical transparency  
in the textile value chain.” 
amit gautam, ceo and founder, 
textilegenesis™.
bestseller
fashion fwd
34
sustainability report 2020
at bestseller, there is a number of fibres we use that 
constitute a minute percentage of our total materials. 
these include animal-based fibres (wool, cashmere, alpaca 
and silk), other natural fibres (e.g. linen and hemp) and 
non-textile materials (leather and down).
the farming of livestock is responsible for substantial 
greenhouse gas emissions, while animal grazing can 
impact the health of the world’s grasslands – particularly 
in drought-prone regions, degrade soil, cause erosion and  
– in some regions – is linked to forest and biodiversity loss.
while less than one percent of our total material consump-
tion comes from animals, we have a strict animal welfare 
policy. animals must not be harmed for the manufactur-
ing of our products. for example, bestseller has been a  
fur-free company for more than a decade and we are a member 
of the fur free retailer programme*, so it is easy for our cus-
tomers to recognise that bestseller does not sell real fur.  
bestseller has also adopted the good cashmere stand-
ard® by the aid by trade foundation (abtf).
other animal-based materials include leather and down. 
while leather is not among the most-used materials in 
bestseller, it is a high-risk material due to various 
social, environmental and animal welfare problems relat-
ed to its production. for example, the tanning of rawhide 
to make leather involves toxic chemicals that often end in 
local waterways causing serious health and environmen-
tal problems. bestseller has therefore concluded that 
leather cannot be referred to as a sustainable material and 
we are actively seeking innovative alternatives to leather. 
through our membership of textile exchange, we are 
engaging in animal welfare discussions and since 2018 we 
have committed to sourcing all our down according to the 
responsible down standard unless recycled down is sourced. 
 
2020 progress & impact
we updated bestseller’s animal welfare policy to further 
elaborate on our responsible sourcing programme and to 
better reflect our fashion fwd target for wool, which states: 
by 2025, 100 percent of our wool will be sourced in line 
with industry best practice, such as the responsible  
wool standard.
we also updated our ban on mohair. having completed 
the phasing out of mohair in 2020, bestseller will con-
tinue to ban the material until we can identify and verify 
responsible sources.
with regards to responsible sourcing, bestseller part-
nered with the good cashmere standard® to help promote 
more sustainable practices within cashmere farming and 
began sourcing cashmere fibres through this programme. 
through our fashion fwd lab, we linked up with danish 
innovators beyond leather, who are developing a leather 
alternative made with apple pulp, which is left over fol-
lowing the production of juice or cider.
going forward
bestseller will continue to adopt relevant animal fibre 
standards as they are launched, as well as investigate 
innovative alternatives to traditional animal-based mate-
rials. for example, we are working with textile exchange 
on the development of its responsible alpaca standard 
(ras), which is expected to be made public in 2021. as soon 
as ras fibres are available on the market, bestseller 
will engage its supply chain partners to source them.
 
other fibres
various challenges 
for niche fibres
*  bestseller has entered the fur free retailer program together with the 
fur free alliance (ffa). the ffa is an international coalition of animal 
protection organisations working to bring an end to the exploitation and 
killing of animals for their fur.
through our membership of 
textile exchange, we are 
engaging in animal welfare 
discussions and since 
2018 we have committed 
to sourcing all our down 
according to the responsible 
down standard unless 
recycled down is sourced.
bestseller
fashion fwd
35
sustainability report 2020
sustainability 
innovation
investing in our  
industry’s future
at bestseller, we believe that it is only through inno-
vation that the global fashion industry will truly achieve 
a sustainable transformation. bestseller is committed 
to identifying and accelerating new and innovative solu-
tions for our company and the wider fashion industry. we 
have set three goals that specifically relate to innovation: 
by 2025, we will facilitate the development of more sus-
tainable fibres and materials at market scale through 
innovation and industry collaborations.
by 2025, we will drive forward post-consumer waste and 
circular infrastructure solutions, engaging in collabora-
tive initiatives to turn waste into valuable resources.
by 2025, we will have tested and implemented circular 
business models in selected key markets with relevant 
partners.
there are two main elements to bestseller's innovation 
approach. our fashion fwd lab is an experimental plat-
form with a focus on pilot collaborations with innovators 
and entrepreneurs that test and promote new solutions. 
invest fwd is our investment platform that provides 
capital investments to scale promising solutions for  
bestseller and the broader industry.
bestseller
fashion fwd
36
sustainability report 2020
“we’re looking for the holy grail of sustainable 
solutions. nothing less. fashion fwd lab is  
our playground where we can experiment and enable 
innovators. it requires resources and long-term 
commitment to work with innovation. 
we don’t engage in innovation projects  
merely for bestseller – we’re trying to move  
the entire fashion industry forward.”
 
camilla skjønning jørgensen,  
sustainable materials & innovation manager, bestseller. 
2020 progress & impact
bestseller increased and broadened its focus on sus-
tainable innovation for the fashion industry with the 
launch of fashion fwd lab in september 2020. fashion 
fwd lab focuses on new low-impact circular materials, 
better production, new business models and smarter ways 
of manufacturing. most of all, the lab acts as a catalyst 
for collaborations consisting of pilot projects, workshops, 
case studies and more in order to accelerate sustainable 
change. 
between the launch of fashion fwd lab and the end of 
the year, bestseller introduced five new innovation 
partnerships under its umbrella. 
in the field of innovative materials, we linked up with 
spinnova (a finn ish innovator creating f ibres from 
sustainably sourced wood without harmful chemicals), 
infinited fiber (a closed-loop solution producing a new 
cotton-like fibre made from waste) and beyond leather (a 
leather replacement based on fruit waste). 
bestseller was introduced to spinnova through the 
fashion for good initiative, which we have been a strategic 
partner in since 2019. this partnership underlines the col-
laborative nature of our fashion fwd lab. bestseller 
benefits from working with the latest in innovative mate-
rials and – potentially – a more sustainable material in 
the years to come. spinnova gets access to bestseller’s 
wide range of brands, such as vero moda , vila and 
selected, as part of a joint product development phase, 
investigating which commercial products would suit their 
sustainable fibre, which is made from wood without any 
harmful chemicals.
bestseller
fashion fwd
37
sustainability report 2020
“having great brand partners like 
bestseller, with the expertise 
and resources to collaborate with 
an innovator like us, has been 
crucial to our material development. 
bestseller has guided us 
in finding the right brands and 
prototype products in their 
portfolio that we could create 
with our material and perhaps 
introduce even before they are 
commercially available.” 
 
janne poranen, 
ceo and co-founder, spinnova.
in the field of pre and post-consumer waste solutions, 
bestseller began collaborating with renewcell and 
cyclo. our brands vero moda, object and selected 
became some of the first fashion brands to produce gar-
ments at market scale from renewcell’s fibre circulose®, 
which is made from discarded textiles, such as production 
waste and worn-out garments. 
together with cyclo, bestseller has developed a 
closed-loop system in conjunction with our biggest jersey 
supplier in bangladesh – gms composite knitting. cyclo 
recycles our brands’ own cutting scraps to make useable 
cotton yarn and fabric. selected, vero moda,name it 
and jack & jones have signed up for the pilot project and 
their first collections made from their own textile waste 
will be ready in spring 2022.
fashion fwd lab collaborations:
- 
spinnova (textile fibres produced from wood 
 
without harmful chemicals)
- 
infinited fiber (a closed loop solution producing 
 
a new cotton-like fibre made from waste)
- 
beyond leather (a leather replacement based 
 
on fruit waste).
- 
renewcell (low impact circular material circulose®) 
- 
cyclo (recycling of local cutting scrap 
 
into new yarn and fabric)
- 
 lenzing™ carbon-zero tencel™ 
 
(see page 34)
- 
circular systems (transforming waste into fibre) 
 
(see page 34)
going forward
in 2021, we are working on our overall innovation strategy 
to further guide our work in this vital sphere. building on 
last year’s launch of fashion fwd lab, we will continue to 
collaborate with these innovators, while also identifying 
and investigating potential partners and projects for both 
invest fwd and fashion fwd lab.
in spring 2021, a physical base for fashion fwd lab has 
been set up at our office in aarhus, denmark. this makes 
it possible to see, feel, touch, and grasp current and future 
innovations.
bestseller
fashion fwd
38
sustainability report 2020
with a vision of becoming circular by design, designing for 
circularity is essential. in step with our circularity part-
nerships in fashion fwd lab (see page 36), bestseller 
is constantly analysing and rethinking how our products 
are made, used and reused through design. additionally, 
we are also focused on eliminating waste from the very 
beginning of our design phase. 
we are training relevant colleagues in circular design 
principles so that they consider the entire lifecycle of a 
product, as it is our belief that circularity will be expected 
from all products in the near future. we need to decouple 
growth from virgin and finite resource usage, and – funda-
mentally – change how products are made and used.
 
2020 progress & impact
besides the aforementioned circularity efforts and waste 
utilisation projects in our fashion fwd lab, we had two 
strategy goals connected to circular design to be reached 
by the end of 2020: by 2020, we will have conducted a pilot 
with two jeans styles containing recycled post-consumer 
cotton to be included in our ‘never out of stock range’ 
within jack & jones.
by 2020, all of our designers and buyers will have com-
pleted a training module on circular fashion design.
closing the loop 
through circular design
the first target was reached already in fy 2018/19, as jack 
& jones produced two styles made with post-consumer 
waste (pcw) cotton – one of them sold more than 100,000 
pieces in their never out of stock (noos) programme. for 
2020, jack & jones produced 14 styles made with pcw 
cotton, some of them noos as well.
in februar y 2020, we achieved our second target, as  
bestseller sustainability hosted a circularity workshop 
for brands, as part of a planned circular design challenge. 
while the competition element was interrupted due to 
covid-19, the lessons from the workshop remained, paving 
the way for a number of circular capsules. furthermore, 
another session – this time virtual – on circular design was 
hosted in january 2021 to make sure all our designers and 
buyers are introduced to the principles of circular design 
and – on the basis of this – brand specific workshops are 
also planned. 
another circularity initiative worth mentioning comes 
from vero moda: the brand has created three denim 
styles made with 100 percent recycled cotton, which has 
been partly sourced from old hotel towels. one of the 
key challenges of turning old cotton into new fabric is 
removing polyester and other contaminants, but when 
using a high quality and homogenic source like hotel 
towels, it is possible to make jeans from pure recycled 
cotton. the jeans were designed as part of the ellen 
macarthur foundation’s ‘make fashion circular’ initi-
ative that seeks to drive the fashion industry towards a 
circular economy, reducing fashion waste and pollution. 
the initiative was launched in 2018, and vero moda 
joined the jeans redesign project in 2019 to promote 
circular products.
 
going forward
our programme for educating and training our designers 
and buyers in circular design principles remains ongoing. 
this will provide the foundation our brands require to 
further explore how they can turn waste into valuable 
resources through creative approaches. 
furthermore, our fashion fwd lab will continue to engage 
in projects and partnerships, determined to find solutions 
that enable full circularity on a wider, commercial scale. 
specifically for 2021, bestseller is collaborating with 
over 20 renowned fashion brands, manufacturers and recy-
clers in the new initiative circular fashion partnerships, 
facilitated by global fashion agenda. the partnership 
enables circular commercial collaborations to develop and 
implement new systems to capture and direct post-produc-
tion fashion waste back into the production of new fashion 
products. the business model and project learnings will be 
presented at the end of 2021 in a ‘circularity playbook for 
bangladesh’, which will be used as a guide to replicate the 
partnership in other countries.
a circular product  
that can become  another circular product
make with safe and 
renewable inputs 
(fibres, chemicals etc.)
design out 
waste
design for 
recyclability
design for 
longevity
bestseller
fashion fwd
39
sustainability report 2020
forging ahead 
with circular 
design
 
while bestseller’s internal competition ‘circular 
design challenge’ was interrupted by covid-19, 
object and selected continued to explore circular 
design throughout 2020.
selected has included 10 circular styles in its 
autumn 21 collection. to highlight selected’s 
thorough approach to circular design, each garment 
includes a label inside that outlines how it has been 
designed for circularity and longevity, with a focus on 
refashioning, reusing and – eventually – recycling the 
piece. for example, the collection includes a pair of 
black jeans for women, which have dotted lines on the 
inside to indicate how they can be transformed into 
cropped capri and different styles of shorts. 
as part of its pre-spring 21 collection, object 
included four styles using circular design techniques, 
made to be easily recycled.
“it has been great to see how 
object and selected – despite 
the disruption of covid-19 – have 
continued to work with circular 
design following bestseller’s 
internal circularity workshop in 
february.
object and selected  
are contributing to become 
‘circular by design’ by challenging 
the status quo and rethinking 
the standard design process,  
so they consider everything  
from choice of materials to  
a product’s end of life.”
pernille kramer, 
senior project specialist, bestseller.
 
“we are really proud of the 
result as our small capsule 
sold just over 5,000 pieces. 
more importantly, it became 
the kick-off for our circularity 
journey. since this initial capsule 
we have included between  
16 to 36 circular design styles 
on each main collection.” 
gitte skals hauge,  
project & sustainability manager,  
object.
bestseller
fashion fwd
40
sustainability report 2020
fashion fwd
      refining our circularity focus 
when launching fashion fwd, we committed to re-evalu-
ating our strategy and our goals when required. as part 
of our research into garment collection systems, we have 
become convinced that the greatest impact we can have is 
by focusing on driving the development of systemic infra-
structure mechanisms at a multinational level. therefore, 
at this point of time, we have decided not to invest in an 
individual brand garment collection channel and we will 
therefore prioritise other solutions instead of the following 
fashion fwd goal: by 2020, we will offer and promote a 
used garment collection channel to consumers in selected 
markets together with relevant partners.
in 2021, we will join initiatives aiming to develop and  
facilitate pan-european textile recycling solutions. this 
will be a critical step in achieving this goal: by 2025, we will 
drive forward post-consumer waste and circular infra-
structure solutions, engaging in collaborative initiatives 
aimed to turn waste into valuable resources.
 
educating our consumers
our consumers will be a critical part of our journey towards 
a sustainable reality. at bestseller, we want to empower 
our consumers to make more sustainable choices. one area 
where we can inspire them is in terms of extending the use 
of our products by designing for longevity and repair, as 
well as engaging with them on wear and care.
bestseller has published a wear and care guide on our 
corporate website, and in 2020, some of our brands devel-
oped similar communication. selected put together care 
guides for different product categories, while only took a 
different approach with a social media campaign focused 
specifically on wear and care. only will continue this 
approach in 2021. 
last year also saw our e-com project return revolution 
come to its scheduled end. the project had been focused on 
reversing bestseller’s online return rate that had been 
steadily increasing over the past five years. with initiatives 
such as environmentally friendly cleaning and repair equip-
ment at our return centre in poland, return revolution 
successfully turned the tide with regards to online returns. 
during its 12-month existence, return revolution investi-
gated 100 initiatives for reducing the business and environ-
mental cost of returns. this focus and the lessons learned 
lives on in bestseller e-commerce’s new customer team, 
which was formed in 2020.
bestseller
fashion fwd
41
sustainability report 2020
speeding up 
digital 
acceleration  
in bestseller
at bestseller, we see digitalisation 
as central to our future, as it can 
make us more efficient, more agile 
and more sustainable. 
covid-19 has only served to reinforce our belief that dig-
italisation is the way forward. throughout bestseller, 
digitisation initiatives (converting analogue systems to 
digital) and digitalisation projects (optimising our busi-
ness practices through digital technologies and data) are 
accelerating rapidly.
one area where digitalisation is directly linked to our 
sustainability agenda is with our work to reduce the use 
of physical samples, with regards to the design and sale of 
our products.
in connection with fashion fwd, bestseller has a goal 
that: by 2025, the volume of samples we produce will be 
significantly reduced by investing in digital solutions 
and collaborating closely with our key suppliers. to reach 
this goal, bestseller is working with brands to reduce 
their demand for physical samples, while also developing 
and implementing alternative digital solutions.
2020 progress & impact
as part of bestseller’s ambition to reduce physical 
samples, vero moda, only and jack & jones have 
adopted selective sample packing for their markets to 
reduce the number of samples sent from our distribution 
centre in denmark to the brands’ sales representatives 
throughout the world.
since this initiative began in 2019, we have seen a general 
decline in the percentage of samples being distributed 
for each collection. in 2020, only’s selection percentage 
dropped as low as 31 percent for one collection. we believe 
that this initiative will alter our company’s mindset 
regarding samples and reduce our demand.
another key project for reducing samples is our digital 
showroom. bestseller has been work ing on digital 
showrooms for a couple of years and 2020 was a sig-
nif icant year in their development. w hile the project 
was initially paused following the global outbreak of 
covid-19, it was quickly identified as even more impor-
tant in a world of social distancing, resulting in some 
modifications and the completion of digital showroom 
2.0 by the end of last year.
 
elsewhere in bestseller, our focus on digitalisation in 
the midst of a global pandemic has seen a huge increase 
in digital development. for example, selected is now 
presenting all new collections 100 percent digitally, while 
jack & jones developed an extensive live-streaming set-
up in 2020, which has seen them execute a two-day global 
collection launch, a comprehensive sustainability webinar 
for internal and external stakeholders, and many other 
smaller online events. 
in bestseller people, our in-house training experts 
have identified a number of advantages of converting 
trad it iona l face -to -face courses to on l i ne. (see page  
60).
going forward
in january 2021, the digital showroom concept went live 
at bestseller germany’s head office in hamburg. the 
updated setup has been rolled out in 12 vero moda show-
rooms in germany, austria, denmark and france. some 
sales representatives are also using the programme on 
their laptop computers for remote selling. 
“we have chosen to do an aggressive rollout, as we have 
high expectations to the digital showroom and we believe 
that the combination between digitalising the showrooms, 
without sacrificing physical nearness is right way to do it. 
we believe in a future where we can reduce our amount of 
physical samples significantly, while maintaining near-
ness to our customers,” says peter dahl, vero moda’s 
sales director. 
bestseller is working on a scalable solution, so the dig-
ital showroom can expand further in 2021. we expect to 
add further vero moda markets this year, while name 
it is also in line to adopt the technology. we are also look-
ing to get more brands on board with selective sample 
packing in 2021.
“the importance of digitalisation 
and sustainability are becoming 
increasingly clear in all parts of 
society. now, more than ever, we 
need to accelerate our journey 
towards a sustainable reality and 
 a truly digital future. this is key  
to the continued development  
of our company.” 
anders holch povlsen, 
bestseller’s ceo & owner.
bestseller
fashion fwd
42
sustainability report 2020
at bestseller, we are committed to reducing the envi-
ronmental impact of our packaging connected to the 
transportation and sale of our products. while packaging 
is vital for protecting our products, there is a growing 
awareness of the problems posed by traditional produc-
tion techniques and a lack of circular solutions to reduce 
packaging waste.
we have set two goals regarding plastics and packaging: 
by 2025, all consumer facing packaging will be 100 per-
cent reusable, recyclable or compostable.
by 2025, we will have phased out single use virgin plastic 
wherever possible.
bestseller has developed two policies regarding pack-
aging – one focused on plastic packaging and the other 
dedicated to paper and cardboard. the policies cover all 
packaging including trim and marketing. the purposes of 
the policies are to reduce our consumption, give priority to 
recycled materials, and to support high-quality recycling.
plastic use and its subsequent waste is a critical prob-
lem for society, as it is often made from non-renewable 
petroleum and is non-biodegradable. plastic has long been 
recognised as a significant contributor to the pollution 
of the world’s oceans, while in recent years, the impact of 
microplastics on the environment, including animal and 
human health, has been in the spotlight.
paper and cardboard packaging is a major contributor to 
global deforestation and biodiversity loss. each year, three 
billion trees are logged for packaging. bestseller has 
partnered with the environmental organisation canopy to 
help eliminate the use of paper and cardboard packaging 
sourced from ancient and endangered forests. (see page 33 
and 67).
bestseller is an inaugural member of the fashion pact, 
which was launched at 2019’s g7 summit in paris. as a 
signatory to the fashion pact, bestseller has agreed to 
three key commitments regarding climate, biodiversity 
and the world’s oceans. (see page 67).
eliminating 
virgin plastic 
from our 
packaging
bestseller
fashion fwd
43
sustainability report 2020
all polybags to be
100% 
recycled polyethylene  
certified by global  
recycling standard  
by the end of 2021. 
2020 progress  
recycled polybags (%)
 
predicted  
saving approx. 
1,750  
metric tonnes  
of virgin plastic  
per year. 
28
2020 progress & impact
in 2020, we focused on further development of our policies 
regarding plastic and paper packaging, and their initial 
rollout phase. these policies apply to our entire value 
chain and will set the standards required for bestseller 
to achieve our fashion fwd goals. 
a key area of focus was the switch to polybags made 
from 100 percent recycled polyethylene certified by the 
global recycling standard, which are also designed for 
subsequent high-quality recycling. this change is pre-
dicted to save approximately 1,750 metric tonnes of virgin 
plastic per year. polybags remain business critical for  
bestseller, as they remain the best solution to date to 
protect our garments. producers of paper-based alterna-
tives to polybags are currently not at the scale required to 
meet bestseller’s needs. in the fourth quarter of 2020, 
we converted approximately 28 percent of our polybags to 
recycled – and we expect that the transition will to com-
pleted during 2021. 
going forward
in 2021, we will continue to remove virgin plastic polybags 
from our value chain, and expand our focus by targeting 
the larger shipping polybags used in e-commerce when 
sending orders to consumers. these polybags are cur-
rently produced of 51 percent recycled plastic but we are 
working on upgrading to 80 percent recycled plastic in 
2021, with more innovation to follow in the coming years, 
as we work towards replacing shipping polybags with a 
paper-based option.
 
bestseller
fashion fwd
44
sustainability report 2020
fair 
for all
everyone working in our value chain will 
be equally empowered by jobs that are safe, 
that protect human rights and provide fair 
incomes and opportunities for everyone to 
reach their personal potential.
2020
2021
2021
2022
2025
2025
fair for all
goals
we will analyse  
and strengthen  
our leadership 
pipeline and initiate 
implementation 
of training for all 
manager roles.
all suppliers will have 
invested in fire, electrical 
and building safety 
and show continuous 
improvement.
we will complete the global rollout of 
our online engagement surveys and 
define common metrics to benchmark 
engagement across our markets.
we will achieve 100% 
remediation and safety 
training under the 
bangladesh accord.
we will train 4,000 people 
through our internal academy 
to further develop and 
enhance their skills.
we will have evaluated 
and redesigned our 
productivity & social 
dialogue programme 
based on learnings from 
myanmar and bangladesh 
and further implemented 
improvements for 
management and workers 
in partnership with our 
key suppliers across key 
sourcing countries.
we will publish a list of our key 
material suppliers.
we will complete the global rollout 
of our diversity and inclusion policy 
and the accompanying awareness 
programme. 
workers and managers in all 
factories in our productivity 
and social dialogue pro-
gramme will engage in social 
dialogue, driving productivity 
improvements and greater 
shared social value.
through industry 
collaboration, we will 
implement mechanisms to 
promote fair living wages.
we will support 100,000 
women in tier 1 factories 
to achieve workplace 
empowerment and 
improved life-skills.
bestseller
fashion fwd
46
sustainability report 2020
bestseller’s code of conduct outlines the ethics and 
behaviour we expect from the suppliers and subcontrac-
tors we partner with. we also maintain close relationships 
with our suppliers and take an active role in addressing 
issues through our various sourcing offices around the 
world. additionally, we advocate for higher standards and 
more stringent legislation at an industry level as a member 
of various international multi-stakeholder organisations. 
while social sustainability in the fashion industry is 
very focused on supply chains, we are also committed to 
providing an enriching, supportive and fair workplace 
for bestseller’s direct employees. attracting, devel-
oping and encouraging talent has always been central to 
our business model, and this ability to unleash human 
potential will also be vital for our sustainability aspira-
tions. 
in this chapter, we will outline our progress with regards 
to human rights in our supply chain, factory standards 
and fire safety, social dialogue, women’s empowerment, 
talent development and employee engagement.
bestseller is committed to promoting dignity, equality and safe working 
conditions for all people across our value chain through our work with 
engaging fwd. people from across the world play a role in designing, 
manufacturing, transporting and selling our products, as well as supporting 
those who do so. we strive to be fair for all and we are focused on creating  
a positive impact for people through our business activities.
committed 
to promoting 
fair working 
conditions 
for all 
bestseller
fashion fwd
47
sustainability report 2020
at bestseller, we uphold the 
principles of good governance, 
as well as social and environmental 
sustainability, and promote 
ethical corporate culture to all 
our stakeholders to strengthen 
respect for fundamental human and 
labour rights across our value chain. 
our approach to human rights is articulated in our human 
rights policy, code of conduct and responsible sourcing 
policies, which commit to the international bill of human 
rights, the un guiding principles and the international 
labour organisation's core conventions. 
protecting 
human 
rights in 
our supply 
chain
 
sourcing regions with particular risk of 
human rights violations 
at bestseller, we acknowledge our responsibility to 
respect human rights but understand our limitations as an 
individual company. that is why we collaborate with indus-
try and external partners to promote respect and support of 
human rights. such collaboration is particularly important 
when dealing with regions where there is an increased risk 
of human rights violations.
bestseller’s sourcing regions of particular human 
rights focus policy describes our approach when dealing 
with such regions. while some regions are banned from 
bestseller production, others are subjected to a particu-
lar human rights due diligence focus. as the situation in 
these regions can change rapidly, you can find the latest 
status on our website.
our policies are continuously updated to reflect issues 
identified through our factory standards programme, our 
engagement in industry initiatives and other forums for 
stakeholder dialogue such as ethical trading initiative 
(eti), and act on living wages, which provide guidance 
and advice on mitigating and remediating problems in our 
supply chain, as well as human and environmental risk 
assessments. 
bestseller also conducts human rights and environ-
mental risk assessments to identify how workers and their 
local communities may potentially be exposed to adverse 
effects or infringement of labour and human rights. we 
implement preventive measures for any identified risk, 
according to the nature and scale of the risk and have 
standard procedures for how to remediate.
bestseller
fashion fwd
48
sustainability report 2020
inspiring 
positive change 
at factories
to b e appr o v e d f or pr o duc t ion f or be s t se l l e r , 
factories must fulfil bestseller’s basic requirements 
within social and labour, chemical and environmental 
performance and pass a comprehensive onsite assessment 
conducted by a member of the bestseller in-country 
team or a third-party auditor. 
at routine intervals, all suppliers in our supply chain 
conduct a self-assessment covering 16 social, labour and 
environment areas. our local teams of specialists verify 
the suppliers’ answers to the self-assessment during 
on-site per for mance eva luat ions . t he v i sits can be 
announced, semi-announced or unannounced depending 
embracing transparency to inspire progress
transparency enables bestseller to address risks, promote positive change and further trust with 
our stakeholders. we publish an updated list of our on-boarded tier 1 garment manufacturing factories 
on our website twice a year. we will continue to bring further transparency to our supply chain and we 
have a target to publish our key materials suppliers in 2021, and we are well on the way, as all chinese 
material suppliers, who represent the majority, are published through the ipe (see page 17).
tier 1
finished  
goods
assemblers
tier 2
materials
manufacturers
tier 3
fibre
processors
tier 4
r aw  
materials
suppliers
all production units involved in the make-up and finish-
ing of garments and products, including subcontractors. 
includes cut-pack, embroidery, washing, dyeing, printing 
and finishing of garments or finished products. 
all production units involved in finished materials 
production, including subcontractors. includes fabric 
and trim manufacturing (“trims” include plastic 
buttons, metal zippers, rivets, etc.), dyeing, printing, 
finishing, tanning and laminating of materials. 
all production units involved in fibre processing, 
including spinners and feather/down processors.
agriculture and extraction of raw material.
our factory standards programme identifies and addresses 
environmental, labour and human rights issues at tier 1 
suppliers. it is designed to build transparency into our supply 
chain to prevent, mitigate and address risks and to promote 
positive change in partnership with our suppliers, incentivising 
them to take ownership and improve human rights and 
environmental performance rather than just comply. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
49
sustainability report 2020
on the situation and follow clearly defined methodologies, 
protocols and performance indicators. 
each supplier is given a weighted performance rating. if 
the supplier goes beyond what is normally expected in 
a particular area, they are rewarded in the performance 
rating. unsatisfactory results are also graded according 
to their severity and given corresponding protocols and 
timelines for remediation. our local social and labour 
and chemical and environment specialist teams conduct 
follow-up visits to advise and check on the remediation 
progress in person. 
in addition to our own assessments, we work with the 
social & labour convergence programme (slcp), the higg 
facility environmental module (fem) and facility social & 
labour module (fslm) tools. (see page 16).
2020 progress & impact
 
onsite risk assessments and assistance with remediation 
was severely hampered in 2020 by the covid-19 pandemic. 
special protocols were developed for this situation, includ-
ing virtual factory assessments and cross-referencing 
self-assessments with official registers and maintaining 
relationships with suppliers over the phone and via online 
applications.  
  
in 2020, we conducted 28 investigations into potential 
cases of critical non-compliance (labour rights, health and 
safety, and/or environment). eight of these cases were dis-
missed after investigators found no evidence of non-com-
pliance. of the remaining 20, 13 were fully resolved in 
accordance with corresponding protocols. in seven cases, 
although the issues were partly or fully resolved, the 
unsatisfactory resolution process led us to re-evaluate our 
relationship with these suppliers. bestseller decided 
to end the business relationship going forward and off-
boarded the suppliers in accordance with our standard 
operating procedures. fourteen of the cases were resolved 
with collaboration between bestseller and local and/or 
international labour unions.
bestseller worked hard to support our key suppliers 
deal with reduced cashflow and lockdowns when the pan-
demic hit. we temporarily decreased payment terms to 10 
days, so suppliers were better equipped to pay salaries and 
avoid or reduce any layoffs.
in cases where layoffs were unavoidable, bestseller 
has a clear process to research, review and – if required – 
remediate the situation. 
we will continue to support the rights of workers to 
bargain collectively and encourage all parties to use the 
proper mechanisms to address their grievances. 
bestseller is a signatory to the slcp, which aims to 
reduce duplicative social and labour audits by offering one 
converged assessment framework (caf) that is accepted 
across multiple brands. to save suppliers both time and 
financial resources in 2020, we decided to accept verified 
slcp assessments, as equal to third party audits. 
going forward
we intend to improve our supplier and factory rating sys-
tem to ensure data consistency and alignment by investing 
in new it tools for training suppliers on how to complete 
the self-assessments, as well as updating our data collec-
tion and management systems internally. 
having updated our reporting templates for social and 
labour and environmental verification, as well as above 
and beyond indicators for exceptional performance in 
2020, we will be holding seminars with our local teams on 
suppliers:  
386
tier 1  
factories:  
653
onsite factory visits: 
659  
 
480 performed by  
local bestseller  
teams and 179  
by approved  
third parties
these updates in 2021, so they can guide suppliers in com-
pleting the self-assessments. we will also train our teams 
in slcp and fslm strategies, so they can disseminate this 
information among our suppliers.  
we will be reviewing and updating supplier requirements 
regarding our fire, building and electrical safety pro-
gramme based on a risk-based approach in sourcing coun-
tries not covered by the life and building safety (labs) 
initiative and the accord. (see page 51 and 52).
bestseller
fashion fwd
50
sustainability report 2020
achieving 
landmark change 
in bangladesh
in 2013, bestseller signed up to the accord on fire and building 
safety in bangladesh – an agreement between the international 
union industriall, uni global union and more than 200 apparel 
brands and retailers to make fire, electrical and structural 
improvements in the bangladeshi ready-made apparel industry.
over the last seven years, we have worked with the accord 
to make significant improvements at factories in bangla-
desh that manufacture our products. today, the accord 
covers over 1,600 factories in bangladesh, representing 
over 2 million workers. as per the agreement, 100 percent 
of our suppliers are under the accord programme, and sup-
pliers that do not agree to accord monitoring and training 
are not onboarded into our supply chain. in our fashion 
fwd strategy we have set a target that by 2021, we will 
achieve 100% remediation and safety training under the 
bangladesh accord.
in may 2021, the accord will be replaced by the rmg sus-
tainability council (rsc), an initiative to carry forward 
the accomplishments already made on workplace safety 
in bangladesh. bestseller will continue its support and 
alignment with the rsc.
2020 progress & impact
as per the agreement, 100 percent of our suppliers in 
bangladesh are covered by the accord programme and in 
2020, bestseller made electrical and building safety 
assessments mandatory for onboarding new factories in 
pakistan. 
accord covered factories are assessed by independent 
inspectors, and provided with corrective action plans as 
well as training. 
29 
factories completed 100% 
remediation on initial 
assessment 
 
28  
factories have completed 
all the initial findings and 
waiting for their remediations 
to be verified by bestseller
38  
factories completed rsc 
safety training (health  
and safety training) 
270,000  
workers
bangladesh represents  
roughly 33% of bestseller’s  
production volume and employs an 
estimated 270,000 workers. 
in 2020:
bestseller
fashion fwd
51
sustainability report 2020
“for me, the biggest impact comes 
from teaching factory workers about 
how to identify issues and raise 
them. some of the people we meet 
at the factories don’t know how 
to read and write, but we don’t let 
that become a barrier – after our 
training sessions they know what 
to do and what not to do to keep 
themselves and their workplace safe, 
and that is all that matters.” 
zahangir alam, 
csr manager in bangladesh, bestseller.
going forward 
the accord was a landmark agreement and it has shown 
how releva nt sta keholders ca n col lec t ively develop 
obligations to improve human rights conditions in the 
supply chain, even in a notoriously high-risk sector and 
country. 
its emphasis on empowering workers by training them 
in identifying and mitigating risks was ground-breaking, 
as was giving them an anonymous platform to raise any 
workplace-related issues. the impact of the accord illus-
trates the power of brands working together to support 
a supplier in improving standards and incentivise best 
practices. bestseller will continue to advocate for a 
collective approach among our peers in the industry. 
as a result, thousands of individuals have been trained on 
how to spot and remediate risks and establish health and 
safety committees at factories, increasing ownership of 
risks and developing ambassadors for safe practices. many 
of the procedures and requirements under the accord have 
been integrated into our factory standards programme, 
which applies to all our suppliers. 
 
 
 
life and building safety (labs) initiative 
labs aims to improve worker safety in the apparel and 
footwear industry by identifying and remediating fire, 
electrical, and structural building safety risks. labs does 
this through developing a single country-based, life-safety 
programme to assess factories and provide a framework for 
monitoring and ensuring mitigation and remediation. 
we were a steering committee member of labs and sup-
ported the development of its programmes and eventually 
piloted the programme with some of our suppliers in india.  
2020 progress & impact 
nine factories are currently enrolled in the programme and 
are implementing the advised remediations. covid-19 has 
made implementation challenging, but we are seeing good 
progress across all factories. 
going forward
we are evaluating the potential for further factories to 
join the programme in 2021. we will look into incorporating 
some of the experiences we have gained through labs into 
our own factory standards programme. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
52
sustainability report 2020
helping workers 
be heard
strong social dialogue is key to ensuring the opinions of 
factory workers and factory management come together 
in factory decision making processes. it encourages good 
governance and advances social and industrial peace and 
stability, ultimately resulting in a more fulfilling work-life 
for the people in our supply chain.
in 2017, bestseller joined the myanmar productivity 
and occupational health and safety project (mypod). the 
project focuses on building the capacity of workers and 
factory management to establish workplace social dia-
logue, and highlighting how those forums can improve 
working conditions and increase productivity.
some issues in our supply chain stem from a lack of well-es-
tablished social dialogue mechanisms on issues such as 
health and safety, wages, and freedom of association. our 
goal is to have our own internal productivity and social 
dialogue programme for all suppliers that incorporates 
lessons from two initiatives (the ongoing mypod in myan-
mar and the completed posh in bangladesh) to encourage 
and support social dialogue and drive productivity.
in our fashion fwd strategy, we have set two goals: by 
2021, we will have evaluated and redesigned our produc-
tivity & social dialogue programme based on learnings 
from myanmar and bangladesh and further implemented 
improvements for management and workers in partner-
ship with our key suppliers across key sourcing coun-
tries. 
by 2025, workers and management in all factories in our 
productivity & social dialogue programme will engage in 
social dialogue driving productivity improvements and 
greater shared social value.
bestseller
fashion fwd
53
sustainability report 2020
2,699  
workers 
540  
middle-managers 
216  
managers
 
1,802  
women  
1,653  
men 
11 
factories
3,455 
employees
11,140 
sessions
quizrr in numbers
2020 progress & impact 
in 2020, we designed bestseller’s productivity and 
social dialogue programme based on lessons learned from 
our initiatives in bangladesh and myanmar. 
the programme works on two interdependent levels: 
1)   a focus on productivity (e.g. communicating with work-
ers on solutions for streamlining production processes, 
warehousing inspection processes, product safety). 
2)   social-dialogue training sessions, focused on raising 
awareness and implementing mechanisms for improv-
ing social dialogue. 
the programme aims to help workers and management 
work together to contribute to improved worker wellbeing 
and productivity. 
we had been planning on piloting the new programme in 
2020 with one of our long-term suppliers in turkey, deniz 
tekstil, which nominated one of their factories for the pilot. 
pamukkale technical university had also agreed to be the 
productivity implementing partner. we were searching for 
a partner to carry out the social dialogue-related training 
sessions. however, the covid-19 pandemic disrupted imple-
mentation plans, and we will relaunch the pilot in 2021. 
regarding mypod, at the start of 2020, the industrial 
workers’ federation of myanmar agreed to participate in 
mypod’s social dialogue training. these plans were put on 
hold due to covid-19 and later in the year, the project was 
reviewed and redesigned. 
the new project focuses on: 
- 
 developing trade union capacity to train workers rep-
resentatives on freedom of association, social dialogue 
and occupational health and safety.
- 
 supporting union representatives, labour inspectors, 
and company representatives to redesign the produc-
tion flow to incorporate covid-19 regulations set by 
the government. 
- 
 collaborating with act to developing training for 
unions and employers on freedom of a ssociation 
guideline (foa gl) for myanmar, to raise awareness 
of foa gl and increase the reach of mypod beyond 
factories supplying for bestseller. (see page 56).
going forward 
having redesigned our productivity and social dialogue 
programme in 2020, we are on track to achieve our asso-
ciated fashion fwd goal in 2021. another key step will be 
the completion of our planned pilot in turkey, and we will 
use that experience to present a business case to other 
suppliers and thus broadly promote social dialogue and 
productivity in our supply chain. 
the redesigned mypod project is scheduled to be launched 
in 2021 and implementation will depend on the develop-
ments in myanmar.
 
 
quizrr
training on social dialogue  
in some of our sourcing countries, there is a general lack 
of understanding of workers’ basic rights, strategies and 
mechanisms for ensuring their rights are protected. at  
bestseller, we want to support our suppliers in this capac-
ity building, so we have teamed up with quizrr – a global 
organisation that provides digital training solutions specif-
ically for educating workers and mid-level managers using 
real-life situation videos and questionnaires via digital tools. 
we piloted quizrr at two factories in china and two fac-
tories in bangladesh in 2019, training 4,162 workers and 
managers.
2020 progress & impact
in 2020, in spite of the challenges posed by covid-19,  
11 factories participated in quizrr training sessions  
(8 in bangladesh, 3 in china) for a total of 3,455 employees. 
 
going forward
in 2021, as the pandemic and restrictions allow, we will eval-
uate the possibility to enroll more suppliers in the quizrr 
programme and will continue to monitor its effectiveness.  
bestseller
fashion fwd
54
sustainability report 2020
the myan ku fund
84% 
of beneficiaries  
supported have  
been women
108,320 
support payments
8.1 
billion mmk in  
total provided  
via mobile  
money cash  
transfer
supporting 
myanmar’s 
garment 
industry
in 2013, the european union (eu) 
lifted all economic sanctions on 
myanmar after the local military 
relinquished power, paving the 
way for democratic reform. 
bestseller began sourcing in 
myanmar the following year and 
has been supporting sustainable 
development of the local garment 
industry since then.
bestseller joined smart tag – an eu co-funded pro-
gramme – as an inaugural member in 2019. we have con-
tributed financially and nominated suppliers for smart 
tag training. 
these suppliers attend workshop programmes and onsite 
training sessions related to management of sustainabil-
ity and social and labour compliance, health and safety, 
workplace dialogue, chemical risk management, child 
labour prevention etc. smart tag also trains local sus-
tainability experts to support the sustainable develop-
ment of the local garment industry on a broader level.
2020 progress & impact
in the wake of covid-19, in april 2020 smart tag decided 
to redirect its resources and with additional support from 
eu, established the myan ku fund. 
the myan ku fund is focused entirely on supporting 
workers in the apparel sector, providing emergency cash 
payments to impacted workers. the fund was launched 
on 1 may 2020 and as per january 2021 the fund has made 
payments to about 60,000 workers, including over 900 
pregnant workers, most of whom have completed as least 
one counselling session on maternal nutrition and infant 
health with myan ku’s doctors.
additionally, bestseller joined the european chamber 
of commerce in myanmar in 2020 and we have been work-
ing with other brands in the garment advocacy group 
(gag) to support sustainable development of the garment 
sector. 
going forward
the myan ku fund quickly mobilised resources and part-
ners to provide support to a large number of individuals 
impacted by the pandemic. the myan ku fund plans to 
continue its emergency cash transfers, with increasing 
focus on pregnant workers, workers with young children 
and migrant workers. it will also expand its counselling 
support, providing workers with nutritional counselling, 
and training on vocational support. 
as business is returning to the factories after the initial 
impact of covid-19 and as restrictions are being lifted, 
smart tag is trying to resume its regular training activ-
ities. these efforts will continue according to covid-19 
health and safety guidelines. 
in light of the evolving political situation in myanmar, the 
european chamber of commerce in myanmar is closely 
monitoring the situation and sharing timely developments 
with us and our fellow members. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
55
sustainability report 2020
key steps towards 
living wages
at bestseller, we believe that all workers should receive a 
fair wage, which enables them to provide for their families and 
uphold a decent living standard. since 2018, bestseller has 
been a member of action collaboration transformation (act) – an 
agreement between 21 major global brands and industriall global 
union to support the development of an industry that prioritises 
decent work, based on freedom of association, collective 
bargaining and living wages. 
in coordination with our fellow act brands, in light of 
covid-19, bestseller has been and continues to monitor 
payment of wages, severances, worker dismissal, and free-
dom of association in our factories together with unions 
and employers associations to identify and remediate any 
issues of non-compliance within our supply chain trans-
parently and in concert with the relevant unions, brands 
and employer associations.
as an act brand, we also committed to taking responsi-
bility in cases in which a supplier has incurred a fabric 
liability as a direct result of order amendments and to 
communicating any possible projections and stock infor-
mation for the following months.
we are working internally to transform our own internal 
purchasing practices and externally by engaging with 
act's national working groups in key sourcing countries. 
these efforts will enable us to reach one of our fashion 
fwd goals: by 2025, through industry collaboration, we 
will implement mechanisms to promote fair living wages.
2020 progress & impact
bestseller took several key steps forward in 2020. 
internally, we drafted new onboarding and offboarding 
policies for our brands that incorporate act’s purchasing 
practices. 
externally, as part of act, we also worked on multiple pro-
jects. in myanmar and bangladesh we helped establish inter-
im dispute resolution mechanisms (drm). these interim dis-
pute resolution mechanisms provide a platform to navigate 
and solve disputes between local labour unions and factory 
management in a peaceful and efficient way, providing work-
ers with protection and support, which has been particularly 
crucial during a pandemic. these mechanisms cover freedom 
of association disputes and disputed cases linked to the dis-
missal of workers, wages and severance payments. 
the freedom of association guideline (foa gl) for myan-
mar was approved by the international labour organiza-
tion and enacted by all act member brands in april 2020, 
and since may the drm has been used in 10 cases, nine of 
which were resolved, with one ongoing. 
in bangladesh, as part of act ’s local working group,  
bestseller was involved in discussions aimed at find-
ing joint solutions to the challenges posed by covid-19 
in a rapidly changing environment. together with the 
bangladesh garment manufacturers and exporters asso-
ciation (bgmea), industriall and its national affiliates, 
act brands agreed on an internal drm and developed a 
covid-19 joint work plan, which identified a set of key 
priorities that needed to be tackled collectively in response 
to the crisis. the work plan includes a system of monitoring 
and review to ensure workers are properly remunerated. 
going forward
in 2021, bestseller will launch our new act-aligned 
responsible factory onboarding and offboarding policies. 
we will also train members of our purchasing teams on 
responsible purchasing practices.
in myanmar, a review process for the foa gl drm started in 
january 2021 to assess its effectiveness in relation to crite-
ria of the un guiding principles and the oecd guidelines 
for multinational enterprises for grievance mechanisms.
2020 illustrated that initiatives are most effective when 
multiple brands work together and show willingness to 
support suppliers achieve best practices. in 2021, we will 
continue our work on freedom of association advocacy 
across our sourcing markets, and work with employer 
organisations and unions that have the right to partici-
pate in collective bargaining and explore opportunities to 
support the development of these functions in countries 
where they do not yet exist. 
“this is a good example 
of how unions are working 
with brands to develop supply 
chain industrial relations as an 
alternative to the corporate-led 
audit and code of conduct 
programmes that other 
brands are using instead of 
directly engaging with unions.”  
christina hajagos-clausen,  
textile and garment industry director, 
industriall.
bestseller
fashion fwd
56
sustainability report 2020
by the end of 2020, herprojecttm 
programmes have reached 81,975 people  
in bestseller’s supply chain
36,468
10,007
5,390
0
0
51,865
16,283
2,240
0
0
0
18,523
pre-kickoff
herhealth
information on health topics,  
including sexually transmitted  
infections, nutrition, and pregnancy. 
herfinance
financial management tools,  
mobile banking and financial  
inclusion.
expanding  
women’s financial inclusion
basically herfinance for factories  
that have completed herhealth before.
heressential
health and hygiene, nutrition,  
mental health, family planning,  
and digital finance tools. 
herrespect
gender equality and respect.
2,954
750
1600
5,788
495
11,587
completed
ongoing
total
making
a difference  
to women’s 
lives
empowering women creates social value for local commu-
nities and business value for workplaces. at bestseller, 
we are committed to championing women’s empowerment 
across our supply chain with the following fashion fwd 
goal:  by 2025, we will support 100,000 women in tier 1 fac-
tories to achieve workplace empowerment and improved 
life-skills.
since 2012, bestseller has been working with herpro-
jecttm – an initiative run by business for social respon-
sibility (bsr) that develops tailor-made workplace edu-
cation programmes that increase well-being, confidence, 
and economic potential of low-income women working in 
global supply chains. 
as well as giving women important life skills, our suppli-
ers enrolled in the programmes report improved workplace 
communication and higher productivity, and workers report 
feeling more self-confident entering into dialogue with man-
agement to find common solutions to everyday issues.
2020 progress & impact 
by the end of 2020, herprojecttm programmes had reached 
81,975 people in bestseller’s supply chain. in 2020, 16,700 
women working in our supply chain completed herpro-
jecttm programmes. this is lower than in 2019 because of the 
pandemic. nonetheless, we managed to schedule workplace 
programmes in 10 factories, which will reach a further 
10,030 women in 2021 and expect more programmes to be 
scheduled and completed in the coming year.
we also invested time and resources in helping to develop 
heressentials, an app that provides critical information 
on health, financial resilience, and strategies for managing 
relationships and handling stress. 
the programme is novel in that it aims to put technology 
in the hands of low-income women with low tech skills. in 
2020, we organised for 5,788 women to complete the her-
essentials programme in 2021. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
57
sustainability report 2020
key impact survey
herhealth programme results for one of our suppliers in india.
course curriculum: maternal health, nutrition, family planning,  
communicable and non-communicable diseases. 
baseline assessment
after course
“our mission is to get more 
suppliers, factories, ngos and 
other brands on board, and work 
together to bring impact on a 
bigger scale and drive positive 
changes in the industry.” 
andrei vasiliev,  
social impact manager, bestseller.
we were also able to use our network of herprojecttm- 
enrolled factories to disseminate covid-19 related educa-
tional information, as we reported last year. 
going forward
in march 2021, we announced that we have achieved our 
fashion fwd women’s empowerment goal, reaching 100,000 
women through different programmes – four years ahead 
of schedule. with a new ambitious target on the way, best-
seller will continue to work with herprojecttm to empow-
er even more women in our supply chain.
for example, bestseller has signed an agreement with 
work and opportunities for women (wow), a programme 
funded by uk’s foreign, commonwealth & development 
office (fcdo), to bring the heressentials tool to pakistan. 
the wow programme is fcdo’s f lagship central pro-
gramme on women’s economic empowerment. wow aims 
to improve women’s access to more secure, safer and better 
paid work opportunities, improved working conditions, and 
build partnerships to deliver sustainable solutions that can 
also be scaled. 
a locally tailored heressentials programme will be piloted 
with a key supplier, artistic milliners. our combined goal 
with wow is to ensure low-income women workers have 
access to critical information on topics that have been exac-
erbated due to the covid-19 pandemic. 
 
we will also explore whether any of our turkish suppliers 
are willing to engage with the herprojecttm, or alternatively 
create a new programme to address women’s empowerment. 
in march 2021,  
we announced that 
we have achieved our 
fashion fwd women’s 
empowerment goal, 
reaching  
100,000  
women through different 
programmes – four years 
ahead of schedule.
% of
women feeling 
confident
% of women 
reporting 
feeling respected 
by colleagues, family 
and community 
members
% of women 
feeling able to solve 
problems at the 
workplace, at home 
and in the  
community
% of women 
having a say in 
family affairs (i.e. 
education, health, 
assets) 
bestseller
fashion fwd
58
sustainability report 2020
our colleagues are the foundation of what we do. their 
expertise, knowledge and creativity are the reason for 
our successes, including within the sustainability sphere. 
by supporting our colleagues and providing them with a 
safe and inclusive workplace, we give them the best oppor-
tunity to grow and thrive, which – by extension – gives 
bestseller the best chance of success.
the bestseller culture and family feeling is stronger 
than ever. we felt this when our company was hit hard 
and stores around the world closed, which left us with 
little choice than to let go of 1,500 colleagues worldwide 
to ensure the future of bestseller. in this exceedingly 
difficult and uncertain period in our company, we expe-
rienced that we have the right team that worked hard, 
loyally, and dedicatedly to get us through the worst crisis 
in our company’s history.
since our beginning in 1975, bestseller has been a family-
owned company and that heritage can still be felt today.  
a familial atmosphere remains a central element to bestseller 
and our colleagues both contribute to and benefit from that.
building our business 
by developing our people
 
staying vigilant with covid-19  
since covid-19’s global outbreak, bestseller has close-
ly followed the authorities’ guidelines in all our locations 
around the world, respecting the importance of doing our 
part to limit the spread of the virus. we are learning each 
day and adapting to the new reality we face, so we can con-
tinue to support our colleagues.
at bestseller, we provide physical surroundings that 
make our colleagues, customers, suppliers and other busi-
ness partners feel safe and secure. during the past year, 
we have naturally adapted our policies and behaviour to 
ensure our colleagues remain comfortable about coming to 
work. a covid-19 task force committee was established in 
february 2020 to monitor the situation closely and commu-
nicate bestseller’s guidelines to all colleagues. there has 
been an overall focus on both physical safety (e.g. maintain-
ing distance, hygiene, face masks, working remotely) and 
mental health in this trying time. 
the early lessons learned at our global sourcing offices in 
asia were shared with the rest of bestseller and used 
as inspiration for local working arrangements to ensure 
a quick response to this serious situation. at all times 
safety was our highest concern, so we also encouraged our 
colleagues to reach out to their managers or people (hr) 
team, if they had any concerns or conditions to be consid-
ered. 
business travel was kept to a minimum during 2020 as 
travel security had top priority for bestseller. we fol-
lowed guidelines from global and local health authorities 
and, through our cooperation with ‘international sos’, all 
colleagues had access to travel advice and the latest risk 
assessments. we encouraged our colleagues to maintain 
business relationships with suppliers and other business 
partners by using online meeting facilities. 
during the past year, we have learnt a lot and made many 
changes in our ways of working and finding new creative 
solutions. we will use these lessons as inspiration for new 
recommendations regarding remote working to support our 
colleagues feeling safe and secure. 
we will continue to support public test facilities and to 
encourage all working colleagues to be tested, as recom-
mended or required by the public authorities. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
59
sustainability report 2020
throughout bestseller’s 
history, a central theme has been 
our company’s commitment to 
providing talented individuals  
with room to grow. by developing 
talent, we believe that we invest  
in bestseller’s future.
the right to education and training is very important to 
ensure that our colleagues reach their full potential and 
meet the needs of our business. in bestseller, we have 
our own academy team that supports the development of 
our colleagues by constantly offering them training to 
increase their skills and make sure they are equipped to 
get the job done. as part of fashion fwd, we set a goal to 
train 4,000 colleagues through our internal academy by 
2022 to underline the importance of training internally. 
furthermore, we support local talent programmes and edu-
cational institutions to secure our talent pipeline, while 
also offering a number of entry-level programmes to identi-
fy the next generation of colleagues for bestseller. 
2020 progress & impact
our trainers in our internal academy had a full schedule 
for 2020 where they worked on our leadership and sup-
portive training programmes as well as several local talent 
programmes. but due to travel restrictions and increasing 
demands for training they had to introduce new ways of 
learning. therefore, we increased online training to meet 
the demands and requests of the company to develop the 
skills and employability of our people. the possibility 
to train more colleagues with no travel required, meant 
increased diversity amongst the participants in each train-
ning session since we could mix teams across countries. 
2020 was also the year that a new master’s degree in commercial 
and retail management was launched at aarhus university. the 
goal was to receive 30-40 applications, but almost 100 students 
started the new degree in september. bestseller is support-
ing the new master’s programme to secure a pipeline of skilled 
candidates with in-depth knowledge of retail management.
for the second year in a row, a bestseller apprentice 
won the danish chamber of commerce’s prestigious 
“fagprøvepris” and another apprentice made the top 10. 
in total, 74 apprentices graduated from our apprentice 
programme in 2020. 
in addition, our international business trainee pro-
gramme’s (ibt) class of 2018 graduated in 2020, with all 
nine graduates – representing nine separate nationalities 
– gaining fulltime employment with bestseller.
due to covid-19, we did not hire any new business train-
ees in 2020. the recruitment process was cancelled when 
we realised that it would not be possible to set up a team 
in 2020. 
going forward
online training continues to be a focus area, however, to 
meet the demands of the business for continuous learning, 
we are implementing an online learning platform, which will 
consist of communities with learning bites and community 
driven content. the idea is that the platform should become 
a rapid problem-solver for all, so that colleagues can quickly 
find solutions or inspiration from their peers. we expect all 
colleagues globally to have access by the end of 2021. 
while the first graduates from the new commercial and 
retail management master’s degree won’t be available for 
hire until 2022, we will be able to get a first impression 
of potential candidates already in the second half of 2021 
when they will spend their third semester as business 
interns.
in 2021, we will also resume our ibt programme with an 
expanded class of more candidates and new specialist 
fields. our programme will include trainees within buy-
ing, retail management, it technology & development, 
finance, e-commerce, sales management, design, logistics 
or digital learning & development. 
maintaining 
our talent 
focus
our goal of training  
4.000 colleagues by  
2022 was reached  
in december 2020,  
as we hit 
4,043
bestseller
fashion fwd
60
sustainability report 2020
strengthening 
leadership 
capabilities
we want to be the best and continuous development of our 
leaders is important as it builds business resilience. in 2019, 
we introduced a leadership initiative to strengthen the lead-
ership capabilities within bestseller by ensuring that all 
managers work according to their specific leadership role 
and easily transition from one role to another. our lead-
ership approach is being embedded in the way we attract, 
recruit, develop and assess leadership in bestseller. 
 
to reach the fashion fwd goal of analysing and strength-
ening our leadership initiatives and training of all 
manager roles by 2020, we have set 21 initiatives such as 
updating relevant people processes and tools to support 
the managers being recruited, onboarded, developed, and 
evaluated based on the leadership standards defined per 
leadership role.  
2020 progress & impact
in november 2020, our academy team started up online 
leadership training. it turned out to be a remarkable 
success as the evaluation scores matched and even out-
numbered the previous training. the participants were 
impressed by how well it worked online, how time flew by 
and that it was almost like doing the training at an offline 
training facility.
in total, we trained 401 managers during 2020 during a 
period of five months since our training activities were 
closed down from march to september.
by december 2020, we managed to reach 19 out of the 21 
initiatives identified for the leadership capabilities. it was 
not possible to meet the goal since the scope was expand-
ed, which means that the goal will continue in and expect 
to be completed by 2021.
going forward
we will continue training our managers based on our les-
sions learned in 2020. we also expect to combine online 
and onsite training as soon as it can be done. 
bestseller
fashion fwd
61
sustainability report 2020
making people 
feel welcome
at bestseller, we believe that it is vital to have an 
inclusive environment with a diverse workforce to bring 
sustainable fashion forward. to achieve this goal, we have 
committed ourselves to a global rollout of our diversity 
and inclusion policy and the accompanying awareness 
programme by 2021.
by focusing on diversity, we also enhance our talent pool 
both in terms of recruitment and our internal talent 
pipeline, as well as increased productivity, creativity and 
performance, which in the end reduces time and money 
spent on hiring, so it becomes the more sustainable choice. 
2020 progress & impact
to progress our work, we put together a team in people 
(hr) to focus on promoting the diversity & inclusion (d&i) 
agenda in bestseller. our social responsibility team 
will also focus on sickness absence prevention, health and 
safety and promoting equality in bestseller in general. 
the team has gathered data to be able to design a roadmap 
for implementing d&i in all existing initiatives and pro-
cesses. another initiative has also been to design a frame-
work for making a diversity report, which will become 
a reality when a new hr system has been implemented 
globally. we have also encouraged our markets and brands 
to achieve local goals to support the initiative and have 
already seen positive initiatives to back up the policy.
going forward
to support our focus on d&i and reach our fashion fwd 
goal by 2021, we will introduce an awareness programme 
for our colleagues in 2021 to create behavioural change. 
the focus of the programme is to eliminate biases, ensure 
equal opportunities and be transparent about promotion, 
reviews, and development opportunities. our colleagues 
will also be able to learn more on the new online learning 
platform, where we can create awareness and share inspi-
ration for initiatives to support our policy.
we will advocate for a work life that is healthy and sus-
tainable no matter where you work and in which position. 
during 2021, we will focus on sickness prevention initi-
atives and revise our sickness absence policies to fit our 
global standards for bestseller to improve our report-
ing and prevention strategy. 
equality. 
it matters 
 
bestseller uk has set out on a journey to 
promote inclusivity and to ensure fair and 
equal opportunities for all. throughout fy 
2020/21, the people team is hosting a quarterly 
ted talk where all uk-based colleagues are 
invited to watch the lecture and discuss it 
together afterwards. 
the purpose of these talks is to open up the 
conversation around diversity, challenge our 
colleagues’ assumptions and address their 
biases. the feedback and learnings are being 
used to create clear actions to increase the 
inclusivity at the office. the topics will include 
race, gender, sexuality and disability.
we are following the uk initiatives closely 
and we plan to use the lessons learned to 
increase diversity and equality throughout 
bestseller.
“every conversation has 
been unique, and every 
colleague has showed their 
passion and desire to 
become better educated, 
and more inclusive.” 
frances mathews, 
regional people business 
partner, bestseller.
bestseller
fashion fwd
62
sustainability report 2020
as part of fashion fwd, we have committed to complete a 
global rollout of an engagement survey and defining com-
mon metrics to benchmark engagement across our markets 
by the end of 2021. we call it ‘our people’s voice’.
the purpose of our people’s voice is to take the temperature 
on our levels of engagement by empowering our people to 
answer a set of questions about roles, leadership, teams, and 
bestseller. we use the results to identify our strengths 
and opportunities with the final outcome to empower our 
managers to initiate a dialogue with their teams to take 
action together and drive our business forward. 
2020 progress & impact
our people’s voice was launched in september in nine differ-
ent languages to nearly 1,500 colleagues based in denmark, 
uk, canada, austria, greece and turkey. we were very proud 
to reach a response rate of 82 percent, which was slightly 
above our target of 80 percent. we also received 1,680 com-
ments from 385 individual commenters. all comments are 
read and handled with greatest respect. the result showed 
us that even at a challenging time for our company, our 
colleagues are very engaged. we reached an engagement 
score of 79, which is seven points higher than the external 
global benchmark. the engagement score was based on two 
questions where colleagues were asked how happy they are 
working at bestseller and how likely they would be to 
recommend bestseller as a great place to work.
it also showed that we have opportunities where we can 
collaborate and take one step forward to increase engage-
ment and meet our business goals. we learned that decision 
making and communication are key drivers of engagement 
at bestseller and this is also linked to how satisfied our 
colleagues are with the leadership team. 
“everyone knows that engaged 
colleagues create better results. 
we owe it to our colleagues to let 
them know their engagement is 
important to us and to listen to 
their opinions. that is why we have 
implemented our people’s voice.”
louise sylvest, cpo & head of corporate 
affairs, bestseller.
going forward
during 2021, more business units will be added, starting 
with more brands in denmark and new markets in europe 
such as the netherlands, poland, sweden, france, belgium 
and luxembourg. our goal is to maintain a high response 
rate and support our managers to act on the feedback 
provided. we will not reach our initial goal to onboard all 
colleagues in 2021 due to covid-19, but we expect to have 
onboarded all colleagues during 2022. 
keeping 
colleagues 
engaged
“throughout our company’s 
history, we have always 
considered bestseller to be 
more than just a workplace. 
our colleagues are like our family. 
in challenging times, 
i am pleased to see that 
mindset remains widespread 
in bestseller.” 
bestseller’s ceo & owner anders holch povlsen.
in 2020, we launched the our people’s voice survey  
to nearly 1,500 colleagues in nine languages, 
reaching an engagement score of 79%
bestseller
fashion fwd
63
sustainability report 2020
targeting 
unacceptable behaviour
at bestseller, we respect human 
rights, and it is essential to us 
that our business does not cause 
or contribute to adverse impacts 
on human rights. a whistleblower 
system was implemented in 2019 
to report suspicions of serious 
violations of applicable law 
or ethical standards such as 
bestseller’s code of ethics  
and code of conduct.
the whistleblower system is further promoted in connection 
with our sexual harassment policy where we refer to the 
system in cases where our colleagues feel uncomfortable 
talking with their local people (hr) team or manager. 
we want to be transparent about the possibility of reporting 
cases and will promote our whistleblower system further by 
introducing it in the next version of our code of ethics.
2020 progress & impact
at bestseller we treat each other as family and thus have 
a zero tolerance of sexual harassment. while our stance 
regarding this is unchanged, we needed to clearly define 
this in 2020 due to developments in our surroundings and 
wider society. 
the overall purpose of making a sexual harassment pre-
vention policy was to make sure that all our colleagues feel 
safe at work and understand their rights. while the policy 
itself may be new, it is a continuation of bestseller’s 
long-standing principle of non-discrimination and the 
family values our company is built on. nonetheless, it was 
important that we took a stand in our company and made 
our position clear.
be s t se l l e r c ol le a g ue s c a n c ho o s e to r a i s e s uc h  
concerns to their management or to the local people 
department, where the matter will be handled by the 
loca l people respon sible or v ia our wh i st leblower  
system where colleagues can choose to report anony-
mously if they do not feel comfortable speaking to a 
colleague.
going forward
in 2021, we are planning to roll out an updated version of 
bestseller’s code of ethics, which will include our sex-
ual harassment prevention policy and an expanded focus 
on anti-discrimination with specific sections related to the 
prevention of bullying, threats and violence. this will be 
implemented globally and outline a clear process for how 
we will treat breaches of the policy.
we also expect to introduce specific anti-corruption train-
ing for colleagues that have direct contact with suppliers.
bestseller
fashion fwd
64
sustainability report 2020
at bestseller, we believe in a holistic approach to sus-
tainability. from the raw materials that we source and the 
working conditions in our supply chain to the transporta-
tion and post-consumer phases of our products, the scope of 
our sustainability work is broad and the challenges we face 
are interconnected. this is why bestseller is aligning 
fashion fwd with the united nations’ sustainable develop-
ment goals (sdgs), which provides a comprehensive shared 
blueprint of what the world needs for a better tomorrow. 
the sdgs define 17 global development priorities to be 
achieved by 2030, serving as a global rallying call for pos-
itive economic, social and environmental change. due to 
its holistic nature, bestseller’s fashion fwd strategy 
strongly reflects and naturally contributes to the sdgs.
considering our business model and industry, there are 
some sdgs where we have the opportunity to have a great-
er impact. to understand this better, we have compared 
and analysed fashion fwd and the sdgs to identify clear 
links. for bestseller, the following sdgs are where we 
can make a more relevant contribution:
- 
sdg 5 (gender equality)
- 
sdg 6 (clean water and sanitation)
- 
sdg 8 (decent work and economic growth)
- 
sdg 12 (responsible consumption and production)
- 
sdg 13 (climate action)
- 
sdg 15 (life on land)
- 
sdg 17 (partnerships for the goals)
while these are our key focus areas, the sdgs are all con-
nected and our sustainability work therefore contributes 
across the board. the following graphic highlights some 
of our key efforts in relation to the sdgs but is far from 
comprehensive.
supporting the 
sustainable 
development 
goals (sdgs) 
bestseller
fashion fwd
65
sustainability report 2020
sdg 5
as of march 2021, we have reached 
over 100,000 women in our supply 
chain through herprojecttm’s 
various programmes, achieving our 
associated women’s empowerment 
fashion fwd goal. internally, our 
sexual harassment prevention policy 
plays an important role in making 
bestseller a safe and inclusive 
workplace. 
sdg 6
our focus on more sustainable cotton 
helps to improve our water footprint 
by reducing our overall water use and 
limiting our impact on water sources 
through chemicals. 
we use the higg fem module to 
measure environmental performance 
in our supply chain across seven 
impact areas, including water use, 
wastewater, chemical use and waste 
management.
sdg 8
our business presence in developing 
countries throughout the world 
drives economic growth and decent 
work standards. to nurture safe and 
fair working conditions throughout 
our supply chain, we promote social 
dialogue to help give workers a voice, 
and work towards achieving living 
wages in the global garment, textile 
and footwear supply chain as a 
member of act.
sdg 12
at the heart of our fashion fwd 
strategy is a commitment to trans-
forming our business model to meet 
the demands of tomorrow. our fashion 
fwd lab is one initiative that will 
drive more sustainable and circular 
business models forward by identi-
fying and encouraging innovative 
solutions for bestseller and the 
wider fashion industry.
sdg 13
we are taking action to limit climate 
change through our science-based tar-
gets, which commit us to significantly 
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2030 in line with the paris agree-
ment. we will power our owned and 
operated buildings globally with 100 
percent renewable energy, with our 
parent company heartland building 
a 200 megawatt solar power plant in 
denmark
sdg 15
as a member of organic cotton 
accelerator, we help protect biodi-
versity and local water sources, as the 
cultivation of organic cotton excludes 
chemicals and synthetic fertilisers, 
while also providing a healthier 
work environment for farmers. our 
membership of canopy and our forest 
protection policy underlines our com-
mitment to safeguarding the world’s 
forests and associated ecosystems.
sdg 17
accelerating a sustainable reality for 
the fashion industry requires collec-
tive effort to achieve lasting change. 
we are a member of various global 
organisations and industry associa-
tions to share knowledge, collaborate 
and implement solutions, including 
fashion for good, g7 fashion pact, 
act, global fashion agenda, sustain-
able apparel coalition and textile 
exchange.
bringing 
fashion 
fwd  
until  
we are  
climate 
positive,  
fair for 
all and  
circular 
by design
bestseller
fashion fwd
66
sustainability report 2020
fashion for good
fa sh ion for g ood i s a g loba l commun ity of brands , 
producers, retailers, suppliers, ngos, innovators and 
investors united around shared ambitions of positively 
transforming the fashion industry. with our partnership, 
we aim to identify and grow new sustainable innovations 
and solutions through fashion for good ’s innovation 
platform.
sustainable apparel coalition (sac)
sac is a trade organisation comprised of brands, retailers, 
manufacturers, government, ngos and academic experts, 
representing more than 40 percent of the global apparel 
and footwear market. sac is working to reduce the envi-
ronmental and social impacts of apparel and footwear 
products around the world.
make fashion circular 
since 2016, we have been a member of the ellen macarthur 
foundation, and in 2018 we became a participant in its 
make fashion circular initiative. make fashion circular 
drives collaboration between industry leaders and other 
key stakeholders to create a textiles economy fit for the 
21st century. its ambition is to ensure clothes are made 
from safe and renewable materials, new business models 
increase their use, and old clothes are turned into new. the 
new textiles economy will benefit business, society, and the 
environment.
textile exchange
textile exchange is a global non-profit that works closely 
with its members to drive industry transformation in 
preferred fibres, integrity and standards, and respon-
sible supply networks. through textile exchange, it is 
possible to identify and share best practices regarding 
farming, materials, processing, traceability and product 
end-of-life, reducing the textile industry’s impact on the 
world’s water, soil and air, and – by extension – the human 
population.
global fashion agenda (gfa)
bestseller is a strategic partner in the gfa, which aims 
to mobilise the global fashion industry to change the way 
we produce, market and consume fashion. as a strategic 
partner, we also contribute to the development of the ceo 
agenda, which spells out the eight most crucial sustaina-
bility  priorities for ceos on an annual basis. 
the better cotton initiative (bci)
bci is a global not-for-profit organisation and the largest 
cotton sustainability programme in the world. bci exists 
to make global cotton production better for the people 
who produce it, better for the environment it grows in 
and better for the sector’s future. bestseller has been a 
member of bci since 2012.
organic cotton accelerator (oca)
oca acts as a catalyst for change by investing in farm-level 
programmes, which enable farmer education and support, 
develop new cotton cultivars and facilitate sourcing mod-
els linking brands, retailers and suppliers directly to the 
farm. these programmes bring additional transparency, 
integrity, supply security and measurable social and envi-
ronmental impact to organic cotton. bestseller became 
a member in january 2020.
canopy 
in 2020, bestseller partnered with the environmental 
organisation canopy as we work to eliminate the use of 
man-made cellulosic, paper and packaging sourced from 
ancient and endangered forests in our supply chain. cano-
py works with the forest industry’s biggest customers and 
suppliers to develop business solutions that protect these 
last frontier forests.  
the g7 fashion pact
the fashion pact is a global coalition of companies who 
will collectively work to reduce our impact on climate, 
oceans and biodiversity. the coalition will promote exist-
ing programmes – some of which bestseller is already 
involved with, such as the science based targets initiative 
on climate – to get more companies on board. the pact will 
also work to further the global biodiversity conversation 
in order to identify a collective strategy in this space.
science based targets initiative (sbti)
sbti is a collaborative initiative organised by carbon 
disclosure project, the united nations global compact 
(ungc), world resources institute (wri) and the world 
wide fund for nature (wwf). sbti is also one of the we 
mean business coalition commitments. bestseller has 
set science-based goals on greenhouse gases through the 
science based targets initiative (sbti), which has an over-
all aim of making science-based target setting standard 
business practice by 2020.
re100
led by the climate group in partnership with cdp, re100 
is a collaborative initiative bringing together the world’s 
most inf luential businesses committed to 100 percent 
renewable power. 
bsr herprojecttm 
bsr’s herproject™ is a collaborative initiative that strives 
to empower low-income women working in global supply 
chains. bringing together global brands, their suppliers, 
and local ngos, herproject™ drives impact for women 
and business via workplace-based interventions on health, 
financial inclusion, and gender equality. bestseller has 
been a member of bsr herprojecttm since 2012 and became 
a catalyst member in 2018. in 2019, bestseller has also 
established a five-year partnership with bsr’s herpro-
ject™.
multi-stakeholder 
partnerships and 
collaborations 
bestseller
fashion fwd
67
sustainability report 2020
the bangladesh accord on  
fire and building safety
the bangladesh accord on fire and building safety is an inde-
pendent agreement designed to make all garment factories in 
bangladesh safe workplaces. it includes independent safety 
inspections at factories and public reporting of the results of 
these inspections. bestseller signed up on 24 june 2013. in 
may 2021, the accord will replaced by the rmg sustainability 
council (rsc), an initiative to carry forward the accomplish-
ments already made on workplace safety in bangladesh.
the ethical trade initiative (eti)
eti is a leading alliance of companies, trade unions and 
ngos that promotes respect for workers’ rights around the 
globe. eti’s vision is a world where all workers are free 
from exploitation and discrimination, and enjoy conditions 
of freedom, security and equity. bestseller was accepted 
as a foundation stage member on 10 march 2016.
the apparel and footwear interna-
tional rsl management group (afirm)
afirm is an international group constituted by a number 
of apparel and footwear companies, which have a common 
mission to reduce the use and impact of harmful substanc-
es in the apparel and footwear supply chain.
action collaboration  
transformation (act)
as a member of act we are part of a global agreement to 
use our influence as brands to promote and work towards 
living wages for apparel workers at industry level through 
collective bargaining.
bestseller
fashion fwd
68
sustainability report 2020
