boozt ab, org. 556793-5183
boozt ab, org. 556793-5183
2020
sustainability 
report
letter from ceo hermann .....................................................................................................  3
our role in the supply chain ..................................................................................................  4
our value chain .........................................................................................................................  8
our vision & strategy .............................................................................................................. 12
our house .................................................................................................................................. 16
our people ................................................................................................................................ 26
our partners ............................................................................................................................. 32
our selection ........................................................................................................................... 36
auditor's report on the sustainability report  ................................................................ 42
this report constitutes our gri report and un global compact  
communication on progress, as well as our statutory sustainability report. 
the gri index can be found on: 
www.booztgroup.com/sustainability-reports
this report is published april 16, 2021
3
boozt ab / annual report 2020
hermann haraldsson, co-founder & ceo
sustainability 
report
sustainability report
letter from ceo  
hermann
this report is published april 16, 2021
it has been a year full of unknowns. at the same time, this year has proven the strength in 
the care-why culture that is so instrumental to our company. i have seen how our people 
have gone above and beyond for our customers, the company, and each other. with a lot of 
determination and teamwork we have turned challenges into opportunities. 
throughout the year we have continued to drive our sustainability agenda forward and 
it has been rewarding to see the positive effects of our efforts. our investments into our 
local environmentally optimised fulfilment centre, running on 100% renewable energy, 
means we are able to maintain an industry-leading low 300g co2 distribution emission per 
order including returns. furthermore, we have set responsible practices within our industry  
by eliminating extreme return behaviour with our fair-use policy. as a result, we have 
lowered our total carbon emissions for the year by an amount equivalent to 25% of the 
returns co2 footprint. 
our leading position and technology present a unique opportunity to push for a more 
sustainable industry. we want to accelerate our sustainability initiatives further and with this 
report, we are launching our care-for strategy. this is our roadmap to becoming the leading 
responsible e-commerce company in the nordics by 2025. 
we want our customers to shop with us knowing they support a responsible company that 
takes real action towards contributing to a more sustainable future. as part of our care-for 
strategy we have set actionable goals for the next five years that will keep us on track to 
reaching our vision and will concentrate our efforts on areas where we can have the most 
significant impact. not only are we setting high goals for improving our own operations but 
we are also committing to partnering with organizations that are working towards improving 
environmental and social performance, such as the sustainable apparel coalition and  
higg co, and the b corp movement.
we run our business on responsible choices. although we have minimized the impact of 
our own operations, lasting change will only be achieved through collaboration across the 
entire value chain. caring for the change we want to see, we are committed to supporting our 
brand partners on their sustainability journey, making it easier for our customers to find and 
choose sustainable styles, and developing best-practices through strategic partnerships. 
when online shopping is done right it makes sustainable choices easier. 
4
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
the fashion supply chain is complex, interlinking many 
different stakeholders across the product life-cycle. using 
our market-leading position and strong relationships 
with customers and partners we can accelerate positive 
change across the whole supply chain through enabling 
collaboration, innovation and transparency. as a retailer 
without any own production, we do not have a direct 
impact on the production of the products we sell, but we 
do have the opportunity to have a large impact as the link 
between brands and the consumer. 
as our business evolves so does our role in the supply 
chain. new technology and tools help us better collect 
and trace data, stronger partnerships create opportuni-
ties to innovate, and new business areas mean we can 
have an indirect impact on a wider supply chain. at the 
same time, external factors play a huge role in shaping  
the supply chain and constantly present new challenges. 
this makes it even more important for us to have an open 
dialogue with our partners, our customers and the industry. 
to achieve meaningful and lasting change we want to 
bring our partners along on our sustainability journey; 
proactively informing, innovating, and communicating 
best-practices with them. this is why we continuously work 
to ensure that our partners understand and embrace our 
high environmental and social standards and sustainability 
commitments. by collaborating we can better understand 
where our influence will have the strongest impact and 
how to drive transformation.
our role  
in the supply chain
5
boozt ab / annual report 2020
design 
raw materials
production &  
manufacturing
curated 
fashion
brand 
collaboration
webshops
packaging 
fulfilment 
& returns
delivery 
product  
use & care
indirect impact
direct impact
the fashion supply chain
7
boozt ab / annual report 2020
a pair of jeans sold in sweden - total co2eq emission by distribution method*
co2eq 
emissions from lifecycle of garment (production to disposal excluding customer distribution method)
emissions from distribution to the customer
distribution by boozt
~1%
~16%
* data sourced from the 2019 report “environmental assessment of swedish clothing consumption" by rise (research institutes of sweden)  
the distribution emission data for a physcial store is based on the carbon footprint per item bought from the average user transportation  
to the store. this is a mix of non-emitting transportation, public transportation and personal car transportation. emission from lighting and  
heating of the physcial store is not included in the "distribution through physcial store". 
emission per item from boozt is derived by dividing the emission per order (314g) with average items per order (2.8) 
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
distribution through phycical store
the ramifications of the e-commerce model 
as with all decisions we make throughout our business we want our sustainability efforts to be based on credible 
data, this includes correct and comprehensive information about the ramifications of the e-commerce model on the 
environment. while we will always strive to lower the footprint of our operations, the true environmental impact of  
the e-commerce model next to the brick and mortar shop is still hard to pinpoint and greater data should be  
collected and compared. we will use our positioning in the nordic market to partner with researchers that can  
help provide a better understanding of this topic based on empirical findings. 
research from the 2019 report “environmental assessment of swedish clothing consumption” by rise (research 
institutes of sweden) shows the impact of the transportation of the customer back and forth from the physical  
store. when we compare this data with the impact of our e-commerce model, the carbon footprint is significantly 
lower than when shopping in a physical store in sweden. 
sustainability report
8
boozt ab / annual report 2020
our value chain outlines our three main business 
segments and the flow of products within the boozt 
ecosystem. this is where we have a direct impact on  
our footprint and can ensure that we are running a 
responsible and efficient business; one that leads by 
example to inspire progress throughout the greater supply 
chain. 
our strategy is to offer a large curated selection of mid to 
premium brands with a strong focus on quality products 
that are made to last. we extend the products´ life cycle 
across our platforms, working to ensure that all items 
ultimately end up with our customers and that we minimize 
waste. this means products have multiple chances to sell, 
both initially online and then offline. any items that cannot 
be sold are ultimately donated.
our value chain enables us to make responsible choices 
in the way we handle our inventory and claims. excess 
stock from boozt.com is given a new opportunity to sell on 
booztlet.com and items with minor defects are being sold 
at high discounts in our physical booztlet stores. we also 
partner with brands to support their inventory clearance 
which we purchase at discounted prices. this enables our 
brands to use our platforms as a responsible alternative 
for handling excess inventory. 
sustainability report
our value chain
offprice
responsible handling of prior season 
stock from brands and boozt.com
last resort outlet
items that did not sell online or goods 
with minor defects
booztlet 
physical store
in season
mid-to-premium fashion and lifestyle  
for the nordic customer 
9
boozt ab / annual report 2020
materiality assessment
based on our yearly materiality analysis, this report 
focuses on the most important sustainability issues for 
our business and includes the economic, social and 
environmental topics we have prioritised. we take into 
account a combination of external and internal factors 
when considering whether a topic is material. among 
other things, we have aligned with the overall mission 
and competitive strategy of boozt, broader societal 
expectations and the business’s influence on upstream 
entities, such as suppliers, and downstream entities such 
as customers. our assessment also takes into account 
international and local standards and agreements the 
company is committed to. 
in 2020 we conducted our materiality assessment using 
two complementary assessment tools; the sdg action 
manager and b impact assessment tool. 
sdg action manager
the sdg action manager is a tool developed by b lab, the 
legal entity behind the b corp certification and the united 
nations global compact along with advisors such as the 
danish institute of human rights, gri and the undp. 
we have adopted the sdg action manager as an internal 
management tool to help us self-assess and improve. 
with it we identified the focus areas where we can make 
the biggest difference: optimising our local operations, 
empowering our employees, engaging our partners, and 
curating our sustainable selection. this has served as 
our blueprint for adopting the sustainable development 
goals (sdgs) while we feel many of the sdgs include 
important bearings for supporting our contribution to 
sustainable development, the most relevant development 
goals we have chosen to address are sdgs 9, 12 and 17. 
goal 9. build resilient 
infrastructure, promote inclusive 
and sustainable industrialisation 
and foster innovation
goal 12. ensure sustainable 
consumption and production 
patterns.
goal 17. strengthen the means 
of implementation and revitalize 
the global partnership for 
sustainable development.
we aim to address  
the following sdgs:
the b impact assessment
the b impact assessment (bia) is a comprehensive 
management tool developed by b lab and un global 
compact that assesses a company’s performance against 
the highest standards in terms of environmental, social 
and governance performance. it focuses on operational 
impact i.e. how a company manages the day to day impact 
of running their business and the impact of their business 
model, i.e the design of the company that creates a 
specific positive benefit/outcome. completing the bia is 
the first step to becoming a certified b corporation. 
sustainability report
environmental
governance
materiality map
social
global 
impact
society
supply 
chain
our  
operations
direct*
*areas identified as primary for our sustainability efforts
indirect
industry & society
sustainability  
leadership
ethical business  
practices of suppliers
financial  
sustainability
governance  
structure
ghg 
emissions
waste  
management
energy  
management
product  
lifecycle  
management
chemical  
management
data 
privacy
customer 
welfare
supply chain 
management
fair labour 
consumer 
behaviour
responsible 
sourcing of  
raw materials 
health  
and safety
employee  
engagement
climate  
change risk
11
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
in reviewing our material issues, we make use of a wide range of insights and inputs, 
including:
business developments 
we review changes to our operations; changes in their strategic importance; 
existing markets and associated legal jurisdictions; and changes to the group’s 
governance and organisational structures.
legislation across 
we use insights into legislation across markets where we are listed, operate or sell our 
goods, that may affect our practices, and customer expectations.
stakeholder views
to review stakeholders views and concerns, we have conducted assessments 
against the highest standards of environmental, social and governance practices. 
risks and opportunities 
discussion at board level of risks and opportunities; annual process of updating 
the group’s sustainability risks and opportunities by the sustainability department. 
global trends informed by research on global macro trends from credible sources 
and studies. 
operating responsibly 
we aim to work openly and transparently with our stakeholders. our management 
systems help us meet our commitments and guide our businesses to address the 
risks and opportunities we may face in the future.
12
boozt ab / annual report 2020
our vision & strategy
our vision is to use our local nordic position and our technology platforms to make sustainable choices easy for our customers  
and our partners. by taking responsibility for our direct and indirect footprint on the value chain, and empowering people  
to act consciously, we strive to build a more sustainable future for fashion.
we are dedicated to delivering a great shopping experi-
ence to our customers, through high-tech solutions and 
a curated selection of fashion and lifestyle brands. in this 
pursuit, sustainability is a crucial building block for our 
long-term business success, ensuring that we meet the 
needs of our customers and the industry. our aspiration is 
that our actions will always reflect our desire to do good. 
with the help of a clear vision and open communication, 
we intend to amplify our efforts and share best practices 
that can influence a more sustainable industry.
our responsibility vision is very much aligned with who 
we are as a business and our well-established tradition of 
always striving to make fair and responsible decisions. we 
recognise the need to address the social and environmental 
challenges within the fashion industry, and that emphasis 
must be on taking responsibility for our direct and indirect 
impact. with the influence we have as a leading player on 
the market, we can push for a more sustainable industry 
by setting leading standards for responsible practices. 
collaborating with industry peers to improve quality and 
transparency in the supply chain, including respect for 
human rights, fair labour conditions, as well as reducing 
the environmental impact from production and operations.
to help guide us on our journey, we have concentrated 
our sustainability efforts around what we call our care-for 
strategy. the strategy is anchored in the boozt ‘care-why’ 
culture and means going beyond just knowing. we care why 
things are the way they are, care for the change we want to 
see and choose to act. this mindset is also what enables us 
to lead the progress towards a more responsible industry. 
sustainability report
care-why culture
a strong company culture that  
empowers our people
renewable energy powered
100% renewable energy across  
all our operations
sustainable consumption
facilitate responsible consumer behaviour
responsible packaging
100% recycled and recyclable packaging 
highest requirements
industry leading criteria for  
sustainability category 
lowest c02
industry leading low co2 emission  
distribution per order
our commitments
13
boozt ab / annual report 2020
we have structured the care-for strategy around four  
focus areas identified through our materiality analysis: our 
house, our people, our partners, and our selection. by 
making responsible choices in all these areas of our business, 
we can reduce the direct footprint of our operations, while 
also engaging our partners, our customer and our people 
on the journey to becoming a more sustainable industry.
goals & commitments 
with the challenges we as an industry face, especially with 
the effects of this unprecedented year, it has become even 
more apparent that collaborative action is key to finding 
scalable solutions to the many pressing issues throughout 
the supply chain. our care-for strategy is our roadmap to 
becoming the leading responsible e-commerce company 
in the nordics by 2025, using our business as a catalyst 
for change. the foundation of our strategy is built upon 
our commitments which are the result of our sustainability 
efforts over the years. these commitments have become 
integral to how we strive to run our business and where we 
continue to invest time and resources. 
still, we want to push further to accelerate the transition 
towards a more sustainable fashion industry. caring for the 
change we want to see in the industry, we recognize that 
we are in a position to go beyond and set higher standards 
for responsible practices. achieving this means setting 
actionable goals for the next five years that will keep us 
on track to reaching our vision. our goals cover all four 
of our focus areas and are an extension of our already 
strong commitments. as part of our care-for strategy, 
these goals will lead us in our decision-making and help 
us follow-up on our progress. the goals are reviewed 
annually to ensure they remain aligned with the strategic 
direction of the business and take into account external 
societal events. 
sustainability report
our house
our partners
2023
become b corp certified.
2022
offer tailored support and data  
to brand partners on their sustain- 
ability journey using the boozt  
media partnership solution.
2025
be climate-neutral across  
our operations, including the  
impact of delivery and returns.
2023
ensure 100% of our apparel brand 
partners are committed to supply 
chain transparency and to working 
with the higg brm tool.
our people
our selection
2021
continuously improve employee 
engagement through feedback 
and dialogue to reach top 
tier employee engagement 
benchmarked against our sector.
2022
reach a 25% share of sustainable 
apparel products across our 
overall product assortment.
our goals
14
boozt ab / annual report 2020
becoming a b corp certified e-tailer
by 2023 our goal is to become the first b corp certified e-tailer in the nordics.  
this means joining a global community of companies across industries focused  
on using their business as a force for good, balancing profit and purpose.
the b corp certification is issued by the nonprofit organization b lab led by 
business investors and attorneys to create a comprehensive set of legal and 
performance requirements. it is the only certification that measures the entire 
social and environmental performance of a company and includes having to  
meet requirements in three areas; verified social and environmental performance, 
legal accountability and public transparency. 
to meet these requirements, boozt must earn the verified score of 80 points 
or above on the b impact assessment, the tool that measures the company’s  
overall impact on its workers, community, customers and the environment.  
b corp certification is a highly selective status. companies must document  
their positive impact to qualify and undergo verification every three years to 
maintain their certification.
this year we are starting the journey with a self-assessment to measure  
our current score and identify areas that we will need to focus on to become 
certified. we believe the process of certification and the interaction with  
the b corp movement will help us scale our positive impact through the  
boozt business model.
sustainability report
14
boozt ab / annual report 2020
15
boozt ab / annual report 2020
reporting requirements
making responsible choices that have a positive impact on 
the industry requires a solid foundation in science-based 
research, strong partnerships and a clear understanding of 
where we can make the greatest impact. with this report, 
we use the global reporting initiative (gri) as a reporting 
guideline to improve the quality of our sustainability 
reporting. we believe the gri standards provide a solid 
framework for analysing and focusing our sustainability 
efforts.
in 2018, we became a signatory of the un global 
compact. with this commitment, we set the intention of 
adopting and adapting innovative ways to integrate the 
ten principles to establish a more sustainable business. 
this means operating in such a way as to promote and 
respect human rights and fair labour conditions, engage in 
the development of environmentally friendly technologies 
and prevent corruption in all forms. it also includes taking 
action to deliver on the sustainable development goals 
(sdgs) and we are committed to aligning our business 
goals with them. this has been the focus of our 2020 
sustainability initiatives and this report serves as our 
communication on progress (cop).
managing sustainability
we are committed to conducting our business responsibly, 
with the highest possible standards of ethics, openness, 
and transparency to build trust with our stakeholders and 
establish accountability. the strategic responsibility for our 
sustainability strategy lies with management which is then 
implemented by our sustainability team. through close 
collaboration between the sustainability team and other 
departments across the boozt group, we work together to 
execute our sustainability efforts. continuously reviewing 
our materiality analysis helps us to ensure that we act in an 
economically, socially and environmentally responsible 
way in all areas of business.
the greatest assets in our sustainability effort are 
our people. a strong company culture, based on the 
values of trust, freedom, and responsibility, reinforced 
with intelligent investments, enables our people to 
contribute positively to the environment, the business 
and the community. by offering continuous training 
and professional opportunities, we want to provide 
opportunities for our employees to utilise their knowledge, 
passion, and skills to imagine new sustainable solutions 
and contribute to our vision
energy sourced from own solar panels 
installed on the roof of our fulfilment centre.
16
boozt ab / annual report 2020
our house
we want to provide the best possible customer experience while conducting our operations in an economically,  
socially and environmentally responsible way. we are taking responsibility for the footprint of our operations.  
reducing the footprint we have through our carbon emissions, energy, waste, and packaging.
2023 
become b corp certified.
2025
be climate-neutral across 
our operations, including 
the impact of delivery  
and returns.
at the core of everything we do is our house. our house 
encompasses all parts of our business and enables us 
to deliver an outstanding shopping experience to our 
customers. as this is where we have the most direct impact 
on our footprint, it is essential we find smarter product 
flows in our operations. smarter product flows are best 
articulated through the use and discovery of processes 
within our daily operations which are more effective, 
efficient and sustainable. for example, shortening 
processing times for customer orders, utilising renewable 
energy, finding the optimal solution for our shipping bags 
and lowering co2 emissions. in this endeavour being 
innovative is essential to us, staying at the forefront of 
cutting-edge technology that can help transform our 
business and the industry for a sustainable future. 
as a nordic company with a leading position in the market, 
we believe that much of our success lies in keeping our 
operations local, allowing for optimised deliveries to 
customers, strong brand networks and engagement 
with our local community. our investments to handle 
all shipments and returns in our local fulfilment centre 
in Ängelholm, sweden has also contributed to more 
environmentally-friendly delivery patterns. it enables us 
to keep the carbon emissions per distributed order at an 
industry-low 0.3 kg co2e. 
impact management 
carbon emissions 
we work continuously to optimise our operations and 
improve efficiency and have created a comprehensive 
overview of our business through data collection allowing 
us to better understand where to focus our responsibility 
efforts. in 2020 we improved the accuracy of our emissions 
data by building upon our calculation methodology and 
reporting our emissions according to the greenhouse 
gas protocol. this data will be used as a base for our 
carbon disclosure project (cdp) reporting. therefore for 
our analysis of the impact of our operations, we are using 
the scope definitions according to the greenhouse gas 
protocol with 2019 as the base year. 
in 2020 we have reduced scope 1 emission for our 
leased cars by reducing the amount of petrol-fueled 
cars and choosing diesel, hybrid and electric cars. our 
scope 2 emissions continue to be zero as we only source 
100% renewable energy for our fulfilment centre and 
headquarter. the digital footprint of our business is offset 
as all servers are hosted via the google cloud platform, 
which is run 100% on renewable energy. 
business travel reduction due to the covid pandemic has 
reduced our travel emissions from 170 ton co2 in 2019 to 
22 ton of co2 in 2020. 
sustainability report
17
boozt ab / annual report 2020
ghg emissions
in metric tons co2 e
2020
2019 
scope 1 
11
89
scope 2*
0
0
scope 3**
2,265
2,030
carbon intensity kg co2e/order 
0.30
0.31
total (scope 1,2,3)
2,276
2,119
* scope 2 emissions calculated using grexel national residual mix for sweden, scope 2:e.on hydro powered electricity, renewable district heating 
and cooling e.on. 
**99% of which from transport of goods, 1% including upstream electricity emissions. does not include downstream emissions.
scope 1  
direct emissions of greenhouse gases from sources owned by us that are not connected to electricity 
delivery. this includes company vehicles and company facilities (included in the graph). 
scope 2  
indirect emissions of greenhouse gases as a result of the consumption of purchased electricity, heating 
and cooling. indirect refers to emissions that occur as a result of activities/consumption by the reporting 
organization, but at sources owned by another organization. 
scope 3  
other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases that result from the consumption of materials, goods, fuels, 
transport with vehicles that are not owned by the organization (not included in scope 2).
sustainability report
18
boozt ab / annual report 2020
energy sourcing
a critical part of boozt’s goal has always been to scale 
up the use of renewable energy. we rely fully on clean 
energy sources to power all areas of our operations. 
the electricity we purchase to operate our local and 
automated fulfilment centre is hydropower produced 
in facilities certified according to the international edp 
(environmental product declaration), a system that offers 
objective and quality information based on iso 14025. 
in mwh
2020
2019
electricity from renewable  
hydropower (total) *
2,206
1,931
purchased energy**
1,979
1,800
produced solar energy
227
131
*bfc and boozt hq including renewable district heating and cooling
**hydropower from skanska energi and e.on
this energy increase can be explained by more output 
from our robots due to a higher number of orders. an 
increase of 14%, well below the net revenue growth of 27% 
compared to 2019, demonstrates the leverage on energy 
consumption from our business model and investments. 
facilities 
headquarter
in the spring of 2019, our head office moved to eminent, the 
first building in the nordics to be certified by well. the 
international well building institute (iwbi) is a globally 
recognised building standard focused on human health 
and wellness in workplaces. this new facility fosters a 
positive working environment including features such as a 
massage room and a play area for parents to bring their kids 
when needed. eminent is also environmentally certified 
with miljöbyggnad gold level, a swedish environmental 
certification for sustainable buildings by the sweden green 
building council. this certification guarantees a reduction 
of energy consumption by 25% compared to conventional 
buildings.
fulfilment centre
local and innovative, the boozt fulfilment centre 
(bfc) represents one of the most significant stops on a 
product’s journey to our customer’s door. since the bfc 
became operational, we have continued to optimise 
the quality, reliability, and sustainability of our fulfilment 
centre. in 2020, we further invested in advancing the 
bfc operations, expanding with a second warehouse 
building and new warehouse automation technologies in 
partnership with autostore, to optimise our product flows. 
as a green building certified facility, our fulfilment centre 
operations are driven by energy-efficient and modern 
technology. the solar panels contributed 13% of the total 
energy consumption at bfc in 2020, that is an increase 
from 8% in 2019. with the completion of the second 
warehouse more solar panels have been added to help 
power our services. the energy generated from these  
will be included in the 2021 energy consumption 
calculations. 
sustainability report
energy consumption and production
19
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
the boozt fulfilment centre
key features of our environmentally optimized facility
runs on 100%  
renewable energy,  
including energy  
sourced from own  
solar panels.
green-building  
certified by the sweden  
green building council 
‘miljöbyggnad silver’.
automated with  
the largest  
autostore installation  
in the world.
positioned in  
the nordics with  
local order and return 
handling minimizing 
environmental  
impact
21
boozt ab / annual report 2020
the boozt fulfilment centre
key features of our environmentally optimized facility
runs on 100%  
renewable energy,  
including energy  
sourced from own  
solar panels.
green-building  
certified by the sweden  
green building council 
‘miljöbyggnad silver’.
automated with  
the largest  
autostore installation  
in the world.
positioned in  
the nordics with  
local order and return 
handling minimizing 
environmental  
impact
distribution & returns
we aim to optimise the efficiency of our distribution 
in various ways, not only for customers to receive their 
orders in a timely and reliable manner, but also to reduce 
our environmental impact. many of the sustainability 
issues that we prioritise at boozt are enhanced through 
partnerships and collaborative initiatives that minimise 
co2 emissions in the supply chain and other local  
impacts.
we work with a variety of vendors to provide our customers 
with distribution alternatives that satisfy each delivery 
need. we strive to give customers the ability to select  
more environmentally-friendly alternatives, such as 
electric car delivery and climate compensated options. 
despite being dependent on the progress within our 
distribution partner’s operation, we endorse this agenda 
and share it with our partners. in 2020, we continued 
our work with our distribution partners to measure the 
emissions from shipping to our customers on a quarterly 
basis. regular reporting provides us with the opportunity 
to measure the impact of our operations as well as 
benchmark and set goals for continuous improvement. 
we received carbon data from our distribution partners 
representing 97% of our orders.
through our close collaboration, we are able to calculate 
the estimated carbon emissions per order delivered 
including returns, amounting to 0.3 kg co2 e. the low 
result is possible due to investments in the optimisation 
of our local distribution patterns. this involves a selection 
of climate compensated delivery options and efficient 
returns transportation in a closed-loop centred around our 
one local fulfilment centre. we are proud of this result and 
we have been able to maintain the industry low emissions 
also from 2020. thus, confirming the value of investing in 
local operations and resource-efficient solutions. 
returns 
one of the afflictions of running an e-commerce business 
is handling returns. a key focus for us has been to decrease 
the number of unnecessary returns to lower the co2 
emissions from transportation pick-ups and deliveries 
as well as the amount of materials used for repackaging 
items. lowering returns will also support the sustainability 
of the business model from an economic perspective. 
same truck for deliveries...
… and returns
0 co2
emissions from  
our operations
300g
co2e per order 
equal to driving 2.6 km in a new car
sustainability report
warehouse 
located close 
to our nordic 
customers
22
boozt ab / annual report 2020
we strive to keep our operations local and all our returns 
are handled in our fulfilment centre in Ängelholm, 
sweden. in 2019, we further optimised our processes in 
the return area at the fulfilment centre supported by best 
practice process optimisation from new management. 
this contributed to us being able to compete with 
outsourcing options for return handling by lowering the 
costs associated with returns. strategic partnerships have 
also continued to keep us competitive. many of the staff  
at the fulfilment centre, for example, are employed  
through our immigration integration project which helps 
refugees enter the swedish job market.
we also recently introduced a fair use policy that 
allows us to “pause” customers who show no intention 
of keeping the items they purchase. these customers 
have repeatedly placed unusually large orders, only to 
return all or almost all items or return several times on 
a large scale. with this effort, we aim to contribute and 
encourage more responsible shopping behaviour within 
e-commerce and encourage our industry peers to take 
real actions towards reducing returns. in 2020, we have 
seen the results of our various actions with the return  
rate declining approximately three percentage points. 
reducing returns through machine learning
decreasing the number of returns is tricky, however, we've established that a large percentage of returns 
is often due to the unpredictable sizing of a brand’s collection. we strive to eliminate the obvious mistakes 
when selecting a size by improving our size guide. an example of this is our machine learning-based size 
recommendation tool. through system developments and partnerships with our brands, we are working on 
creating size predictions for our customers. using machine learning technology, we have been able to collect 
information about customer size choices and returns to suggest the best size option available. this will help 
customers make the right sizing decision, independent of whether they have made previous purchases in 
this category. we aim to bring technology and fashion together to create the best customer experience and 
reduce size-related returns.
sustainability report
23
boozt ab / annual report 2020
data privacy and security 
data security and integrity is a strategic priority for us and 
is at the forefront of our platform department’s agenda. 
with the introduction of the eu’s general data protection 
regulation (gdpr) in 2018, all our systems were examined 
to define data usage and procedures. as part of our 
compliance work, we have processes in place to meet  
eu laws and local law frameworks on data protection. 
in 2020, we began an external review of these processes 
to ensure they meet the latest regulatory requirements, 
such as stipulated in swedish, national, supplementary 
provisions and the eu eprivacy directive. boozt continues 
to strengthen its data security and privacy procedures. 
based on a risk-based approach, as advocated by gdpr, 
we will especially focus on high impact areas such as further 
improving our data breach management, internal training, 
and boozt's transparency towards our data subjects.
the boozt privacy policy gives our data subjects updated 
and relevant information on how, why and for how long 
personal data is processed, and how we sometimes share 
data with subcontractors and partners to better our services. 
it forms an important part of the transparency toolkit, 
together with direct control over many data subject rights 
through easily accessible settings in the boozt account. 
boozt is continually auditing and updating any processing 
taking place on boozt's behalf (through dpa:s) or shared with 
partners, to make sure that any processing of personal data 
entrusted to boozt from its customers and employees is both 
transparent, secure and necessary in relation to its purpose. 
boozt retains personal data only for such time as necessary 
for a specific processing and justified by its legal basis, or 
for as long as it has valid consent. both in compliance with 
gdpr, for the trust of our customers and employees, and for 
efficiency. we have put controls in place (and are continually 
improving) for data subjects to exercise their rights under 
gdpr, such as the right to erasure, the right to object and 
the right of access, in a way where this is done automatically 
where appropriate and by manual assistance where needed 
or of extra value to the data subject. 
established data infrastructure ensures that we stay 
informed about notifiable it vulnerabilities and can combat 
these at an early stage. our it systems are regularly 
tested, both internally and through third party penetration 
testing, to keep abreast with security threats. during 
2020, most of our employees worked remotely following 
local government restrictions and recommendations. we 
quickly adapted to this new operational environment by 
moving all of our it systems and services to a cloud based 
infrastructure, granting a higher level of flexibility. boozt 
has closely followed guidance and best practice after 
the cjeu "schrems ii" case in july 2020 and is making 
an ongoing effort to ensure transfer mechanisms needed 
for subcontractors outside of eu/eea are meeting gdpr 
requirements even after the privacy shield certification 
system was annulled, both for new and old suppliers of 
infrastructure and data processing services. 
sustainability report
24
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
material management
packaging
our customers want to receive the right-sized, recyclable 
packaging materials that minimise waste and ensure 
damage-free and intact delivery. as we look for more 
circular options for packaging solutions, the impact 
of packaging is a core area of focus for boozt. the 
conversation about what constitutes an environmentally 
better option remains complex. however, the role of 
packaging remains relevant to online businesses. despite 
it constituting a small part of the overall impact of a 
garment’s lifecycle, packaging provides opportunities to 
discover more sustainable alternatives. 
the first boozt.com bag in 2012 was made from 50% 
recyclable plastic. over the years we continued to 
improve the composition of the bag. first, by increasing 
the percentage of recycled plastic and then in 2018 we 
set an ambitious target to introduce bags composed of 
fossil-free material. in collaboration with a packaging 
supplier, we developed boozt.com bags made of 100% 
biodegradable food waste. unfortunately, there were 
challenges with recycling, as the adoption of recycling 
opportunities for bio-degradable bags progressed slower 
than anticipated. currently, the industrially compostable 
facilities in the region which boozt operates lack the 
proper infrastructure, including the necessary structures 
for proper post-consumer collecting, sorting and 
composting. therefore, compostable material may end up 
in the recycling stream of plastic, decreasing the quality 
and recyclability of the end product. due to this, we have 
decided to suspend the use of biodegradable bags and 
hope to reintroduce them once the proper handling 
facilities become available.
in 2019, we addressed the issues with the biodegradable 
bag and during 2020, we shifted to 100% recycled, blue 
angel certified, plastic material for our shipping bags. 
we have also maintained the dialogue with our partners 
searching for possible ways to reduce the use of polybags 
and the need to utilise new raw materials. our shipping 
boxes are also made of a single material from 100% 
certified paper to ensure full traceability and recyclability. 
we will continue our long-term research for more circular 
and sustainable material for our packaging alternatives. 
we aim to provide proof of concept for our industry 
partners when testing new packaging solutions, sharing 
what knowledge we have learned across our industry, 
which we believe can amplify the impact. 
waste management & recycling
for both our business and customers, we are persistent 
in our effort to eliminate waste across our operations. the 
recycling process of all packaging material from inbound 
deliveries is handled through efficient sorting systems at 
the boozt fulfilment centre. recycled materials consist 
mainly of paper, wood, and plastic. thanks to a close 
partnership with a local waste management facility, we 
recycle 80% of our waste. however, not everything can 
be recycled. any remaining non-recyclable materials are 
burned for energy recovery in one of two certified centres 
in sweden. looking ahead, we know this is not our final 
stop. we will continue to explore ways to reduce and 
reuse our material resources before recycling to extend a 
material’s life cycle and close the loop on the waste within 
our operations.
25
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
history of the boozt bag 
from the start we have made responsible choices about how 
we choose to package our products. the first boozt.com bag 
was made from 50% recyclable plastic - a decisions taken back 
when recycling options for packaging were still not part  
of the conversation.
we introduced our 100% biodegradable bags.  
in collaboration with a packaging supplier, boozt.com bags 
were made completely from biodegradable food waste.  
the material used was mater-bi from the international  
leader in bioplastic novamont and biodegradable and 
compostable according to european standard en13432.
during 2020, we shifted to 100% recycled, blue angel certified, 
plastic material for our shipping bags. we are also in dialogue 
with our packaging partners to explore possible ways  
to reduce the use of polybags and the need to utilise  
new raw material.
we improved the composition of the material used in  
the boozt.com bags. the recyclable material increased  
from 50% to 80% recyclable plastic and resulted in less  
waste and lighter weight during transportation.
2012
2018
2017
2020
25
boozt ab / annual report 2020
26
boozt ab / annual report 2020
our people
we want to make it easy for our people to do good. a strong company culture and intelligent investments  
enable our people to contribute positively to the environment and the community
2021
continuously improve employee 
engagement through feedback 
and dialogue to reach top 
tier employee engagement 
benchmarked against our sector. 
an organisation is only as great as the people that work 
within it. our people have a central role in our responsibility 
efforts. it is through their passion, hard work, and creative 
thinking that our responsibility vision comes alive. we 
will continue to support and create opportunities for our 
people’s development, and continuously improving the 
conditions for a healthy and efficient workplace is always 
a priority.
our company culture lays the foundation for everything 
we do and all the decisions we make. central to our culture 
is the care-why mindset. it is not only about knowing, but 
also caring. being curious about why things are the way 
they are, choosing to act and going the extra mile for the 
customer, the company, and each other. we believe a 
strong company culture enables our people to contribute 
positively to the environment and the community.
responsibility
freedom
trust
care-why 
culture
the three pillars of trust, freedom, and responsibility make 
up our fundamental beliefs and provide the core values 
that we measure ourselves against in our daily work. 
these pillars are explained and emphasised during our 
employee onboarding program and remain available on 
our online learning platform to all employees. 
sustainability report
27
boozt ab / annual report 2020
 
trust
freedom
responsibility
trust at boozt is based on 
mutual respect and confidence, 
having the same goals, sharing 
the same motivations and 
ultimately, sharing common 
interests. therefore, a core 
belief at boozt is that by relying 
on each other, we make 
everyone stronger. trust  
means that everyone feels 
secure and when we feel 
secure, we can unfold our 
creativity and competencies. 
individuals can reach their 
fullest potential when they  
have the freedom to act and 
solve daily tasks in their own, 
unique way. our people don’t 
really like being told what to do, 
and they want the freedom to 
make their own decisions, to 
learn, to be themselves and to 
suggest new ways of thinking 
and doing. we believe in having 
full freedom as long as we act in 
boozt’s best interest.
freedom comes with 
responsibility. we want our 
people to take responsibility 
for customers’, boozts’, 
and colleagues' interests. 
in our experience, by 
acting responsibly and with 
accountability, we can achieve 
the kind of freedom to which  
we aspire in our daily lives.
employee empowerment
our success at boozt is a product of our talented, hard- 
working people and the array of skills and knowledge 
they bring to the table. knowing this, we strive to create 
a work environment that provides opportunities for their 
continuous development and satisfaction to amplify our 
business and sustainability goals. to continue growing as 
a company, we must invest in the growth of our employees.
health & wellbeing
the outbreak of covid-19 at the beginning of 2020  
affected all aspects of daily life, including our ways of work-
ing. the health and safety of our employees is our main  
priority and we quickly acted to ensure that our people 
had the tools and resources to work from home. the 
added distance requires new solutions to enable every-
one to stay connected with the business and each other. 
we increased the internal communication with frequent  
updates from our ceo and monthly live-streamed ‘all 
staff’ meetings with updates from around the business. 
work equipment was delivered home to the teams that 
required specific/stationary equipment, such as customer 
service and platform, and all physical events were moved 
online. thanks to the commitment of our people we have 
stayed fully operational under these trying circumstances. 
our values; freedom, trust and responsibility will contin-
ue to be the drivers for our approach for a healthy work/
life balance, even after the pandemic and restrictions. 
our employees have access to medical evaluation and 
advice, including occupational health, on a weekly basis 
from an inhouse primary care doctor. during 2020, the 
doctor also offered voluntary tests for covid-19. this, along 
with stricter hygiene measures and physical-distancing 
procedures, has enabled us to have a small number of 
our people working safely from the office. we believe 
that having access to a medical professional, especially 
during this year, helps us tend to the wellbeing of our 
people and reduce sick-leave. in 2020, 30 employees 
(6.8%) were on sick leave for more than 14 days.
professional growth and job satisfaction 
we believe in giving freedom and responsibility for 
personal career development by offering our people 
opportunities to develop themselves professionally within 
the company. we promote internal hires and encourage 
individuals to apply for internal positions when they feel 
ready to take the next step in their career or to explore 
sustainability report
28
boozt ab / annual report 2020
other areas of the business. in this way, we can retain 
critical talent and skills in the business while allowing our 
people to evolve and challenge themselves. 
in 2019 we introduced our employee engagement survey 
platform, with the goal to make it easier for our people to 
instantly and anonymously share their thoughts regarding 
the company culture, how teams are managed and the 
overall direction of the company. questions are sent out 
to all employees on a monthly basis, providing the oppor-
tunity for our people to frequently offer their feedback and 
opinions. this allows them to have more of an immediate 
influence over their work environment. the answers serve 
as a basis for management to make informed decisions 
about our people's work satisfaction and take the nec-
essary actions to ensure that we are providing a healthy 
company culture that stimulates the effectiveness and  
motivation of each team and individual. 
in 2020 the aggregated participation rate for the survey 
was 74% (80%). the platform also uses an employee net 
promoter score (enps) to benchmark employee engage-
ment with others in the same sector. this year the enps 
score was 40, which puts us just below the top 25% for the 
consumer sector. by 2021 our goal is to continuously im-
prove employee feedback and dialogue to reach top tier 
employee engagement benchmarked against our sector. 
we can see that the teams who have worked actively with 
employee feedback in 2020 have also seen a significant 
improvement throughout the year on the enps. we will 
continue working with the survey tool, investing more time 
and resources to improve engagement in the coming year. 
fostering diversity & equality
we believe that the core strength of our company is 
the diversity of our backgrounds. at 33 nationalities, we 
acknowledge our differences but still share the same goals. 
additionally, we strongly believe in and actively support 
women’s and men’s equal rights in terms of employment, 
working conditions and professional development. 
there are no differences in terms of professional roles, 
recruitment, training and remuneration levels which can 
be explained by gender or ethnicity. 
parental leave for both men and women is an intrinsic 
part of our company and our people have the ability to 
combine part-time parental leave with part-time work. in 
2020, 48 of our employees (11%) were on parental leave.
business ethics 
anti-corruption & bribery policy 
our anti-corruption, insider and procurement policies 
are there to ensure that the business is conducted 
ethically. these policies outline our various positions 
on preventing and prohibiting corruption and bribery 
in accordance with local legislation where we operate 
as well as significant international regulatory regimes 
and laws with extraterritorial reach such as the uk 
bribery act and the us foreign corruption practices 
act. these policies include never-acceptable practices 
and monitoring activities to support the prevention of  
corruption, bribery, and conflicts of interest.
we are aware of the inherent risk that individuals in our 
operations or through interaction with us may breach 
legal requirements and our ethical principles related 
to anti-corruption and business ethics. anti-corruption 
policies are communicated to all brands and business 
partners through our buying and merchandising depart-
ment. amongst the never accepted practices is the strict 
prohibition to accepting or offering purchase discounts, 
commissions, bonuses or kickbacks from our brands for 
personal gain. the policies also detailed specific restric-
tions regarding private purchases by employees from 
our suppliers/ brands for private use or consumption, at 
below-market prices. likewise, our anti-corruption policy 
establishes that our employees must not accept gifts or 
any other compensation as there is a possibility that these 
may be perceived to improperly influence business de-
cisions. the anti-corruption policy also expresses typical 
situations in which gifts from suppliers can be considered 
to be a means to influence business decisions.
our position on corruption is conveyed through our 
learning management system. to ensure communication 
of the internal code of conduct to all levels of the company, 
all employees sign a document acknowledging its receipt. 
sustainability report
age distribution
436
34
33
full time  
employees
average age
number of  
nationalities
under 30
30-50
over 50
board
c-level*
group overall
overview of boozt numbers
gender distribution
5/1
6/2
154/282
women
men
30-50
30-50
2
2
166
257
13
4
5
over 50
over 50
board
c-level
group overall
*sandra joy sahlertz resumed the position as chro in january, 2021
30
boozt ab / annual report 2020
to further emphasise the code of conduct, staff are given 
a learning module within the lms accompanied by a 
quiz. no substantiated complaints of corruption or anti-
competitive behaviour were reported in 2020.
whistleblower policy
our whistleblower policy was adopted with the aim of 
encouraging a transparent business environment where 
we operate profitably while maintaining good ethics. 
we are committed to the handling and reporting of any 
wrongdoing. the whistleblower channel is available to 
all employees to report any illegal activity or violations to 
the code of conduct or other policies we have. beyond 
communicating our policies to our staff through learning 
modules via the lms, all documents are readily available 
via an online employee folder. extra training material 
on how and when to use the whistleblower channel has 
been included in our new employee training programs. 
the whistleblower channel supported by an external 
supplier is used to support such reporting, and all cases 
are reported to the chairman of the board of directors.  
no cases were reported in the whistleblower channel  
in 2020
incident management
boozt is committed to contributing to the creation of healthier 
and happier employees. we feel investing in the wellbeing 
of our people will lead to more positive and sustained work 
output and retention. our hr-policy covers occupational 
health and safety, as well as employee wellbeing. to cultivate 
and maintain a nourishing working environment, we perform 
continuous risk assessments and use experts in the field to 
help evaluate risks and set plans. we support the right to 
freedom of association for all our employees as stated in our 
code of conduct. we have collective bargaining agreements 
for employees at our offices and the boozt fulfilment centre.
occupational safety at our headquarters
healthy and safe workplaces are a top priority. any 
assessed risks related to the working environment are 
managed through a systematic approach to occupational 
health and safety (ohs). risks at our head office include 
health risks due to poor ergonomics, lighting or ventilation, 
and also psychosocial risks, such as from stress. all 
employees who manage personnel are required to go 
through ohs training by external facilitators. the training 
includes work environment regulations, systematic 
occupational health and safety, organisational and social 
work environment and rehabilitation.
the purpose of our occupational health and safety (ohs) 
management system is to identify, assess, follow-up and 
develop working environmental goals to mitigate risks 
for all workers. risk assessments are documented and 
assessed by management. a review of the boozt ohs 
system is also conducted on an annual basis by the 
management and board. these results form the basis for 
the yearly ohs plan. we register the occurrence of any 
and all accidents. for severe accidents, which need to be 
reported to authorities in accordance with regulations, no 
incidents or accidents were reported in 2020.
occupational safety at the fulfilment centre
the safety of the working staff at the fulfilment centre is 
essential to our operations, and we aim for zero occupational 
injuries. all working conditions and environmental 
hazards are carefully considered. the fulfilment centre 
encompasses the most modern standards for excellent 
air quality, lighting, safety and cleanliness. the greatest 
threat posed at the fulfilment centre is the risk of fire. fire 
prevention is managed systematically, with documented 
continuous safety rounds being performed and worker 
training. other risks related to the work environment 
include physical risks, mainly in the handling of products 
and product returns, and also psychosocial risks, such as 
stress-related to repetitive tasks and prolonged standing. 
the most common work-related injury is shoulder pain 
from recurring work. to prevent the high potential for work-
related incidences, we conduct frequent risk analyses 
and have been focusing on rotating the type of work the  
staff operates daily. this includes the addition of new 
routines and processes, integrating new equipment and 
making adjustments to static tasks. for severe accidents, 
which need to be reported to authorities in accordance 
with regulations, no incidents or accidents were reported 
in 2020.
sustainability report
32
boozt ab / annual report 2020
2022
offer tailored support and 
data to brand partners on their 
sustainability journey using 
the boozt media partnership 
solution.
2023
ensure 100% of our apparel 
brand partners are committed 
to supply chain transparency 
and to working with the higg 
brm tool.
our partners
we want to inspire our partners to make a positive impact on the value chain.  
by partnering with key stakeholders, sharing our knowledge and best practice,  
we aim to encourage a more sustainable industry.
the industry faces many challenges on the road to 
implementing 
more 
sustainable 
practices 
across 
the supply chain. collaborative action is needed in 
accelerating change and finding scalable solutions that 
drive lasting improvements. using our position and size, 
we aim to investigate and share best practices with 
our partners and peers to be the catalyst for defining 
the new norm for a sustainable e-commerce business 
operating in the fashion industry. our teams work to 
develop partnerships with our brands and distributors to 
communicate our standards and help our partners build 
their sustainability capacity. it is through our partnerships 
that we can have an indirect impact on environmental and 
social performance in the supply chain. 
as consumer behaviour changes and the demand for 
better-made products in terms of environmental and 
social impact increases, so does the need for relevant and 
transparent data. as part of our responsibility vision, we 
want to support our brand partners on their sustainability 
journey, helping them set milestones and track progress 
using measurable and comparable data. with improved 
transparency we can ensure that our partners share our 
sustainability values and that our customers can make 
informed purchasing decisions. 
supply chain transparency
we believe the greatest challenge and opportunity for 
change in the fashion supply chain is within data. the 
information we are able to share with our customers is 
only as good as the data we can gather from our brand 
partners. for us, this means taking proactive approaches 
to improve product data, developing sustainability guides 
for customers and increasing targeted communication. 
to achieve full transparency of the whole supply chain 
requires close collaboration with our brand partners.
human rights risks in the apparel and fashion industry 
have been well documented over the years. there has 
been growing pressure on brands and manufacturers to 
improve control of their supply chain. as a retailer, we 
strive to ensure that any products and goods sold have 
sustainability report
33
boozt ab / annual report 2020
been produced under safe and fair working conditions. 
our boozt group code of conduct for suppliers aims to 
outline minimum requirements for suppliers, including 
respect for human rights and decent working conditions. 
the standards set out in the document are based on 
the un universal declaration of human rights and the 
conventions of the international labour organization 
(ilo). suppliers must meet all legal requirements and 
regulations in operating countries.
supply chains are complex and difficult to trace. we will 
continue the dialogue to locate the easiest and best 
way to use our technology expertise to systematically 
collect, review and share information. transparency in 
the supply chain is a long-term commitment. recognising 
this commitment, we will continue pushing for more 
transparency in the supply chain in 2021, including 
facilitating data. we remain dedicated to working with our 
brand partners to create the most efficient way to gather 
information and work across the fashion supply chain.
sac and higg membership. 
in 2020 we took an important step towards transparency 
in the apparel, footwear and textile industry by joining 
the sustainable apparel coalition (sac). the sac is the 
fashion industry’s leading sustainability alliance committed 
to full environmental and social transparency. boozt 
has joined the more than 250 global brands, retailers, 
and manufacturers, as well as government, non-profit 
environmental organisations, and academic institutions, 
which are collectively committed to improving supply chain  
sustainability in the apparel, footwear, and textile industry. 
as members, we will have access to standardized tools to 
measure environmental and social impact to continuously set 
high standards for our business and the industry. with our 
position as the leading multi-brand retailer in the nordics, 
boozt can positively impact the fashion industry by driving 
transparency through the value chain and product lifecycle at 
scale. that is why, by 2023, we have set a goal to only work 
with brands that are committed to providing comparable 
supply chain data through our sustainability assessments. 
we will use the higg brand & retail module (higg brm), 
a tool developed by the sac together with higg co, to 
better identify improvement areas and help our brands 
move forward in their sustainability journey while also 
providing our customers with detailed and data-based 
information about a product’s sustainability performance. 
industry collaboration 
we achieve many of the sustainability efforts we prioritise 
at boozt through collaborations where we seek mutually 
beneficial partnerships. in 2019, we focused on taking 
strategic steps to support our data collection from brands 
with the aim of motivating brands to become more engaged 
with sustainability. this was a continued focus for 2020 as 
well as partnering with researchers and experts within 
the field of e-commerce and sustainability to gain better 
insights as to the real impact of the business model. that 
way we can find effective solutions that the industry can 
collectively take to lower the impact on the environment. 
sustainability report
34
boozt ab / annual report 2020
the danish and swedish fashion ethical charter
as a supplier of fashion, we acknowledge our role in the 
fashion industry as it relates to the treatment of models 
used in our campaigns. in 2018, we became a member 
of the danish fashion ethical charter and the swedish 
fashion ethical charter. the purpose of these charters 
and our commitment is to ensure the well-being of the 
models within the danish and swedish fashion industry. 
the charters require the adherence of rules in the form of 
health checks, age limits, healthy diets and wages for the 
models and are signed by a broad coalition of stakeholders 
within the industry. as a signatory, we are committed to 
abiding by these rules to ensure the wellbeing of models. 
as we work with many models, boozt seeks to contribute 
to raising awareness of mental illnesses and influencing 
positive attitudes in fashion, media and society.
hållbar e-handel (sustainable e-commerce) 
we believe that sharing best-practices, data and insights 
around how to build a more sustainable future for 
e-commerce is the way to develop lasting solutions to the 
industry’s most pressing issues. we want to lead by example 
in the areas we are strong and learn from experts and 
peers when we can. in 2020 we became members of the 
hållbar e-handel, an initiative that brings together industry 
stakeholders in sweden to set measurable standards 
for sustainable e-commerce. we also have a seat in the 
board. as members of the hållbar e-handel initiative, we 
collaborate with peers and academics to better understand 
the impact of the e-commerce model on the environment. 
during 2020 we have been leading a research project, 
together with the university of gothenburg, on the topic of 
responsible return handling within e-commerce. we hope 
the results of the research will present tangible examples of 
sustainable solutions for returns.
community engagement
we use our size and reach as one of the leading online 
retailers in the nordics to support a number of charities 
and causes within society that have a positive social 
impact. the contributions we made in 2020 have gone 
into helping important causes on their mission to make a 
difference. as our business grows we aim to invest more 
in giving back to our local community the coming year. 
5-skoler 
this year we have worked in close partnership with the 
charity 5-skoler to support their efforts to help children 
in areas of war, conflict and disaster. the danish led 
program builds life-education-centres for children in 
syria, giving them the opportunity for an education and 
a more secure future. our donations have gone towards 
the girls’ empowerment project that focuses on creating 
a safe and equal environment for the young girls in 
syrian refugee camps, as well as helping provide school 
uniforms for the children in the life-education-centres. 
knæk cancer
for the seventh year in a 
row, boozt has brought 
together a strong team 
to raise awareness about 
cancer prevention and 
research. since 2015, we 
have through our brand 
collaborations raised sek 
5.5 million which have 
been donated to knæk 
cancer. in 2020 alone, 
we have raised more than sek 1 million for this important 
cause. the full amount raised goes toward the prevention, 
research, and support for patients and relatives. we are 
grateful to everyone that has been involved in the project 
and appreciate the sustained support. we will continue 
to partner with well known nordic fashion brands to 
bring greater awareness and support the knæk cancer 
campaign.
sustainability report
35
boozt ab / annual report 2020
taking an active role in  
the nordic fashion eco-system
we take our leading role in nordic fashion 
seriously. our ambition is to make the fashion 
world accessible for all, which is why we in 
2020 partnered with the first-ever digital 
edition of stockholm fashion week. sharing 
our values of sustainability and innovation, 
the new format means more of the community 
can tap into an inspirational experience 
that highlights nordic fashion and design. 
on the same note, we also want to provide 
upcoming local brands with a platform to 
reach the nordic customers. an example is 
the new talent award that boozt hosted in 
partnership with stockholm fashion week. 
the award highlights and rewards emerging 
designers and brands that display a unique 
design aesthetic as well as a sustainability 
commitment and a clear business strategy. 
influencer susan stjernberger 
photographed by adam katz sinding 
at stockholm fashion week.
36
boozt ab / annual report 2020
we aim to make sustainable choices easy for our customers through transparency and technology.  
building the largest nordic sustainability selection based on accredited certifications and industry standards.
our selection
2022 
reach a 25% share of 
sustainable apparel products 
across our overall product 
assortment.
we aim to keep the customer front and centre of 
everything we do. hence our goal to provide effortless 
user experience combined with relevant and reliable 
information about products. thanks to our local position 
in the nordics and the market where we operate, we 
partner with local brands that are driving the movement 
within the fashion sector. through brand and industry 
knowledge partners, we can build a framework to better 
navigate our changing industry.
doing good and making responsible choices lies at the 
heart of our organisation. we want our customers to 
feel confident that when they buy from us, knowing that 
they are shopping with a responsible business. from the 
investments taken to run on 100% renewable energy in 
our environmentally-friendly fulfilment centre to working 
with our brands to ensure transparency, fair treatment and 
responsible production in the supply chain, we want our 
customers to rest assured.
more and more of our customers are becoming curious 
about sustainable fashion and how they can contribute to 
making a positive impact on the environment. as a part of 
the fashion industry, together with our brands, we strive to 
take our consumers on a journey towards more sustainable 
fashion consumption. we have curated one of the largest 
sustainability selections in the nordics, with products that 
meet our industry-leading standards of sustainability. it is 
important to us that shopping sustainably is made easy for 
our customers and that they can trust that the products we 
have curated have a positive impact on the environment 
and community.
sustainable fashion
with our sustainable category, we highlight brands 
that emphasise sustainability and support those at the 
beginning of their journey. thanks to our local position in 
the nordics and the market where we operate, we partner 
with brands that are driving the movement to produce 
more responsibly within the fashion sector. through the 
selection and content available, we can offer customers 
high-quality, timeless designs and reliable information to 
shop with confidence according to the values that matter 
the most to them. in 2020, we have updated the category 
in terms of filtering options and information on a product 
level. this has made it easier for customers to identify and 
discover sustainable alternatives. our focus is to improve 
the user experience for our consumers when shopping for 
our sustainable selection.
sustainability report
37
boozt ab / annual report 2020
38
boozt ab / annual report 2020
a strong focus on quality exists in all that we offer to our 
customers and is no less true for our sustainable selection. 
more than 350 brands are part of the sustainability 
category and in 2020 we increased the composition of the 
sustainability selection across our overall assortment to 
17%. as we are further committed to promoting sustainable 
fashion across our platform our goal is to reach 25% of 
our stock apparel composition to be a more sustainable 
alternative by the end of 2022.
we have set industry-leading standards as the found-
ation for our sustainable category in terms of material 
composition 
and 
better 
manufacturing 
processes. 
all selected products must fulfil our criteria* for what 
constitutes a sustainable product. each product must be 
made of either sustainable materials or have sustainable 
certifications. this means all styles are made from 
more than 50% organic, recycled or low environmental 
impact materials, and/or accredited by internationally 
recognised certifications. having a minimum requirement 
* textile exchange “ preferred fibers & materials benchmark report 2018”; higg materials sustainability index (msi); g. sandin  
“environmental assessment of swedish clothing consumption - six garments, sustainable futures.” mistra future fashion 2019. 
of 50% sustainable material content in the products is one  
example of where we are leading in our criteria. 
requirements for the sustainable category and guidelines 
for data sharing are available in our b2b platform to 
ensure transparency with all of our brand partners. 
knowledge sources that have been used in setting our 
requirements are according to industry benchmarking 
and standards provided by already existing guidelines, 
industry standards, and research*. 
our sustainability requirements are being constantly 
reviewed to inspire change and to keep updated with 
the latest research. we want to increase traceability 
and promote consciously made products. with our part-
nership with the sustainable apparel coalition, we will 
work towards building a new product transparency and 
performance standard leveraging the industry-leading 
higg index tool and data. through our collaboration and 
contribution, we aim to reach a higher level of on-product 
transparency based on industry verified data. 
* boozt current sustainability criteria: fabrics included in our sustainable category are according to textile exchange preferred fabrics list with our 50% 
requirement for material composition (minimum 50% material content lyocell, flax linen, hemp, lenzing viscose, lenzing tm ecovero, lenzing tencel,  
birla viscose, econyl, fsc viscose, paper), organic cotton (minimum of 50%), recycled material (minimum 50% polyester, cotton, nylon, wool, down 
feathers, rubber), better cotton (minimum of 50%), eco-processing (bluesign, oeko-tex made in green) certifications we currently include: nordic 
ecolabel, fairtrade, global organic textile standard (gots), global recycled standard (grs), eu ecolabel, responsible down standard (rds), 
responsible wool standard, leather working group
sustainability report
organic
less synthetic fertilizers used  
in farming and chemicals  
during production
low-impact
smarter use of resources  
through production of  
the garment
recycled
reduces the need for new  
raw materials. and upcycling  
as creative recycling of  
unconventional products.
fairly made 
respectful of human rights  
and animal welfare issues.
39
boozt ab / annual report 2020
sustainability report
setting industry standards 
fair use policy 
as part of our efforts to lead the change towards a more 
responsible industry, we have taken a stand against 
unnecessary returns. in 2019, boozt introduced the 
fair use policy to our terms & conditions as a way to 
eliminate unnecessary returns and establish more 
sustainable business practices. returns are an integral 
part of shopping online and we want to make it as easy as 
possible for our customers to return. however, fair use 
helps us have a transparent and honest dialogue with, 
and possibly pause, customers that repeatedly exploit 
our high service levels of free shipping and returns at 
the expense of our business, other customers and the 
environment. 
around 13,000 customers, or 0.25% of the total customer 
base, have been paused through the fair use policy. this 
is a small part of the more than 2 million active customers 
on boozt and booztlet, yet these customers represent 
around 15% of our total return volume. this includes orders 
not shipped and returned due to fair use customers. 
by pausing these accounts and reducing unnecessary 
returns boozt has eliminated the need for approximately 
130 delivery trucks during one year and lowered the total 
carbon emissions by an amount equivalent to 25% of the 
returns co2 footprint.
the vast majority of our customers, 99.8%, shop thought-
fully and only ship goods when needed. however, we  
have seen a significant increase in extreme return 
behaviour within the last few years. this behaviour is not 
sustainable for the environment or the business and is 
not fair to other customers as their shopping experience 
is compromised - either through a lesser service, smaller 
selection or higher prices. we hope to influence our 
industry peers to similar solutions to this increasing issue 
for the e-commerce business model.
one year of the 
fair use policy
0.25%
of the customer base paused 
15% 
decrease in the total return 
volume 
total
carbon emissions lowered  
by an amount equivalent 
to 25% of the returns co2 
footprint
eliminated 
the need for approximately  
130 delivery trucks
freed up 
approximately 4,500 hours  
in customer service 
40
boozt ab / annual report 2020
41
boozt ab / annual report 2020
animal welfare policy
as sellers of animal-derived products, we have a respons-
ibility to uphold animal welfare within our supply chain. 
since 2016, boozt is a fur-free company and a signatory 
of the retailer commitment against fur agreement in 
cooperation with swedish animal rights organization 
djurens rätt. the fur free retailer program is recognized 
by the iso 26000:2010 guidelines to corporate social 
responsibility as an example of sectoral initiatives. 
in 2020 we have further developed our animal welfare 
policy by updating our principles with specific banned 
materials and the responsible treatment certification we 
prefer. boozt does not permit the use of any fur, feathers 
or any skins of snake, crocodile, alligator or any species 
specified in the iucn red list of threatened species in 
any of our products. 
we are aware of the challenges the fashion industry faces 
with regard to animal welfare and the ethical issues sur-
rounding the well- being and treatment of animals. our 
product management team methodically inspects all  
materials when product data is received from the brands. 
we have not sold any goods which violate our fur policy on 
our sites, nor have we sold any items with prohibited mate-
rials. the inspection controls are therefore considered to 
be effective. we are working on strengthening systematic 
preventive controls to further strengthen internal control. 
environmental policy
we conduct a yearly follow-up of our direct environmental 
impact and have initiated mapping and measuring of 
indirect impacts. through our environmental policy, we 
aim to reduce our direct environmental impact and raise 
awareness among vendors and partners of our existing 
policies concerning any environmental impacts and to 
encourage them to adhere to these principles. in 2020 we 
have updated our environmental policy by committing to 
work proactively and continuously to identify challenges, 
set priorities and report on our progress through well- 
established standards such as the greenhouse gas  
protocol and gri (global reporting index).
shopping with confidence
part of our responsibility vision is to use our position 
and competences to make sustainable choices easy 
for our customers. our customers should feel confident 
that through their boozt purchase, they are supporting 
a business that makes responsible choices in all parts of 
the value chain. providing information about the impact of 
materials and production processes, empowers customers 
to make more educated decisions about the products 
they buy. this means actively informing our customers 
of the latest initiatives that promote a sustainable fashion 
industry and sharing any knowledge that we acquire 
through research, materiality analysis, and best practices.
in 2020, we created greater awareness of our sustainable 
products and the new sustainable edit. dedicated 
marketing email campaigns and onsite placements were 
aimed to inspire customers toward more sustainable 
choices. these emails also included information about the 
different sustainable materials, internationally recognised 
certifications and better manufacturing process that serve 
as the criteria for our sustainable edit.
going forward we will work on crossover communication 
to all of our platforms to increase customer awareness and 
inspire interest in sustainable fashion. in 2020, we have 
extended our communication reach to social media via 
weekly sustainability posts. this has been an opportunity 
to engage with our customers on a valuable topic as 
well as to facilitate engagement. we also launched our 
sustainability focused content page online focused 
on educating customers on how to best care for their 
products to both lengthen the lifespan of a garment while 
also having a positive impact on the environment. as part 
of our efforts to educate consumers, we have elevated 
our boozt care concept by including information about 
more sustainable alternatives as well as insights into 
the sustainability journeys of our leading nordic brand 
partners. we will further develop our efforts using our 
newly launched online magazine ‘the edit’ ensuring that 
we reach our large customer base across all platforms.
sustainability report
42
boozt ab / annual report 2020
auditor’s report on the  
statutory sustainability report
to the general meeting of the shareholders in boozt (publ), corporate identity 
number 556793-5183
this is a translation of the swedish language original. in the events of any 
differences between this translation and the swedish original the latter shall 
prevail.
 
engagement and responsibility
it is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability 
report on the pages 36-75 for the year 2020 and that it has been prepared in 
accordance with the annual accounts act.
the scope of the audit
our examination has been conducted in accordance with far’s auditing 
standard revr 12 the auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability 
report. this means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is 
substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance 
with international standards on auditing and generally accepted auditing 
standards in sweden. we believe that the examination has provided us with 
sufficient basis for our opinion.
opinion
a statutory sustainability report has been prepared.
 
malmö at 16 april 2021
 
deloitte ab
signature on swedish original
didrik roos
authorized public accountant
sustainability report
43
boozt ab / annual report 2020
address: 
phone: +46 40 12 80 05 
org.nr 556793-5183
hyllie boulevard 35 
e-mail: info@boozt.com 
malmö
215 37 malmö 
www.booztgroup.com 
vat nr se556793518301
