sustainability report 2020 
4 about the report
4
5
scope 
reader’s guide
6 ceo statement
8 2020 sustainability in brief
12 introduction to demant
14
20
who we are
our approach to sustainability 
sustainability strategy and framework
28 life-changing differences
through hearing health
32
impact on hearing healthcare
our core contribution
34
research and innovation
innovation and ground-breaking technology
your brain hears as much as your ears
eriksholm research centre
phasing out waiting time for hearing tests
music appreciation for cochlear implant users
the challenge of bimodal hearing
improving hearing rehabilitation across sectors 
the power of audio
content
this report  
is an ipaper
an ipaper transforms a pdf into engaging, interac-
tive features that offer different ways of learning 
more, navigating between sections and enjoying 
multi-media. 
in the content list to the right, each title is a direct 
link to the corresponding page. just click!
on each page you can easily get back to the content 
overview. just click the blue button top right.  
 
some images, illustrations and text offer additional 
text and you can click on to get a closer look or a 
deeper explanation. you can also click on the play 
button to watch videos.
if you have come across demant’s previous  
sustainability reports you may notice that this year, 
in some chapters, we dig a little deeper into the 
projects and the people behind them to, hopefully, 
make the stories come even more to life. we hope 
you enjoy this approach.
best wishes,
andrea juliane langkilde
report editor and sustainability consultant
at demant
back to content
2
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
78 environment & climate
82
88
climate impact
climate change and risks
energy consumption
reduce, reuse and recycle
greener and smarter
turtles of tomorrow
environmental management - iso 14001
the green pipeline
96 business ethics & governance
100
108
global business ethics
ethics first
business ethics compliance programme
corporate governance
responsible procurement 
material compliance and safety 
restricted list 
quality management 
biological evaluation - iso 10993
marketing claims 
114 looking ahead
116 appendixes
116 
118
materiality matrix 2019 
our sustainability framework in  
relation to sdg targets
50 people & culture
54
58
64
diversity
diversity and inclusion
work environment 
health and safety
stress
engagement & development
engaged employees 
people development 
68 society & local community
72
resourceful collaborations
campaign for better hearing
remote help for healthcare professionals
and users
world hearing day
74
william demant foundation
reinvesting in society
training health workers in ethiopia
3
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
as an impact business, our core responsibility is making  
a true difference to world hearing health. we fulfil that 
purpose through our ground-breaking products and  
services, which are a direct result of our group-wide focus 
on research and innovation. this is our core contribution 
to society. from corporate social responsibility, sustain-
ability is now the primary term used in the demant group 
as we find that it covers more than our basic responsibil-
ity not to do harm and includes our core contribution and 
positive impact. this sustainability report is our way  
of illustrating our indisputable positive impact, while  
addressing our risks of having adverse impact on people, 
the society and the environment. 
the information stated in the report is representative of 
the demant group. the principles and policies stated 
encompass all companies within the group. unless it is 
declared, third parties such as distributors and suppliers 
are not included in the reporting.
in the report, we have chosen to highlight a collection of 
our initiatives and projects. not all sustainability related 
initiatives will be mentioned or explained in detail. 
communication on progress
the report serves as demant’s communication on prog-
ress (cop) as an active member, on signatory level, of the 
united nations global compact initiative. with this report, 
we wish to express demant’s continued support of the un 
global compact initiative, its 10 fundamental principles 
and the 17 sustainable development goals.
danish financial statements act
our sustainability report covers the statutory reporting 
requirements on non-financial information as prescribed 
by section 99a, 99b & 107d of the danish financial  
statements act. the report covers the twelve-month  
period from 1 january to 31 december 2020.
within demant, vice president of corporate communica-
tion & relations trine kromann-mikkelsen is responsible 
for coordinating the sustainability policies, activities and 
reporting and the liaison between the organisation and 
the executive management board.
trine kromann-mikkelsen
+45 23 968 968
trkr@demant.com
about the report
scope
this is demant’s sustainability report. here we present our sustainability approach 
and the results of our work to continuously improve sustainability – in all of its aspects 
– in our operational practices while contributing to global hearing health.   
4
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
we present our sustainability activities in the following 
order. 
first, demant’s ceo søren nielsen concludes on the year 
2020 in the name of sustainability. second, there is a 
brief outline of this year’s highlights. then, we offer an 
introduction to demant: who are we, how is our global 
group connected and what do we do. next, we introduce 
demant’s approach to sustainability, including our strat-
egy, framework and priorities, and how we work with the 
sustainable development goals. 
then, the following 6 chapters unfold our sustainability 
framework, respectively, by introducing our core contri-
bution, life-changing differences through hearing health, 
and the four operational practice pillars: people & culture, 
society & local community, environment & climate and 
business ethics & governance. throughout the report, 
each chapter will entail an indication of the relevant goals. 
below is an overview of where to find information on the 
report requirements that apply to us:
reporting requirements
where to find it
communication on progress, un global compact: 
actions, plans and outcomes:  
• human rights (principles 1-2)  
• labour conditions (principles 3-5)  
• environment (principles 7-9)  
• anti-corruption (principle 10)  
page 100
pages 52, 58-67
pages 80-93
pages 98, 101-103 
danish financial statements act, §99a: 
policies, key risks, kpis and results
• business model 
• social and employee conditions
• environment and climate
• human rights
• anti-corruption and anti-bribery
pages 14-19
pages 52, 58-67
pages 80-93
pages 100
pages 98, 101-103
danish financial statements act, §99b 
• gender composition in management
pages 54-57
danish financial statements act, §107d 
• diversity policy 
pages 54-57
readers guide
back to content
5
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
ceo statement
i do not believe that anyone will be able to look back at  
the year of 2020 without instantly thinking of the coro-
na pandemic, which to all of us, around the world, was, 
and still is, beyond anything we could have ever imag-
ined. since its initial break-out, the coronavirus has been 
present in our every-day business and private lives. my 
thoughts and best wishes go out to everyone who in one 
way or another, personally or professionally, have been 
impacted by the coronavirus.  
i am extremely proud of demant and how we have  
handled this challenge. we took upon another major  
crisis, only six months after dealing with an it incident in  
september 2019. i continue to be impressed with our 
adaptability, with our people and the personal efforts 
made, including the engagement from local and global 
teams across the world.
6
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
new approach to sustainability 
care for others’ hearing health has always been the  
very foundation of our group. behind this purpose stands  
numerous innovative and engaged employees that are 
driven by a desire to make a change and to do business  
in a proper way. 
only a few years ago, demant began a transformation 
from a silent holding company to a more articulated par-
ent company. this journey is reflected in our sustainability 
approach and it has become increasingly evident in recent 
years that a new group-wide sustainability approach 
would benefit our company and support our ambitions to 
continuously improve our positive impact on society.
in 2020, we worked to define a new approach to sustain-
ability that sets a clear direction for all members of our 
group, including specific targets to increase sustainability 
in our operations. changing lives of millions of people  
living with hearing loss is the core of our contribution, but 
to focus our efforts where they have the largest impact, 
we prioritise our sustainability work. the next years we  
direct special attention to honouring diversity and foster-
ing an unbiased and inclusive culture as well as to work 
with our own climate impact by reducing our packaging 
and waste, supporting the production and sourcing of 
green energy and striving for ambitious emission reduc-
tions particularly in our use of transport. i am very excited 
to continue this work together with the more than 16,500 
demant employees across countries, locations, business 
areas and brands. 
hearing care is healthcare
in 2020 we worked dedicatedly to deepen and broaden 
our knowledge and understanding of the detailed relation-
ship between hearing, health and the brain. stressing the 
link between good hearing and well-being is not only  
extremely important to me personally; with the prospects 
of an increasing elderly population and more people 
suffering from hearing loss, it becomes more necessary 
for countries and their healthcare systems not to neglect 
benefits from hearing care. the link was also emphasised 
by the effect of the coronavirus on society, where many 
people were deprived access to hearing care. once  
societies started to reopen, our clinics saw people lining  
up outside.
being able to communicate is an intrinsic part of what 
makes us human. when our hearing fails us, taking part in 
everyday life becomes difficult. functioning hearing health, 
on the contrary, opens many doors and improves lives of 
those with hearing loss. it improves one’s ability to engage 
in society allowing access to education, employment and 
social activities that enrich our experience and ultimately 
helps us live a more engaging life.
perfecting sound
2020 also marked the launch of our new communica-
tions brand, epos, which focuses on premium audio and 
video solutions for enterprises and gaming. with epos 
we address a different market with different products and 
solutions than we do with hearing healthcare. yet, there 
are essential overlaps in both technology and the results 
we aim to achieve: creating connections between people 
that are free of poor sound quality or noise that challenges 
dialogue. i am happy that epos is now fully integrated 
into our sustainability reporting and i am beyond excit-
ed about this new addition to our group on its mission to 
improve sound and hearing. 
finally, i would like to express our continued commitment 
to the united nations global compact and the sustainable 
development goals.
søren nielsen president & ceo
back to content
7
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
2020 sustainability in brief
highlights
despite a very different 2020 than expected, we are 
pleased to have been able to make progress on our sus-
tainability journey. we further developed our sustainability 
approach and worked on a new demant sustainability 
strategy. aside from our continuous focus on our core con-
tribution to society, hearing health, we have defined two 
main priorities for the next couple of years: diversity and 
inclusion and climate impact.
working on our new sustainability strategy, we also revis-
ited the sustainable development goals to assess not only 
our current contributions and positive impact, but similarly 
identify where we can do more and continue to improve 
important areas of our business. our core contribution 
relates to goal 3 and 9, our strategic projects relate to goal 
5, 12 and 13 and other important areas of attention relate 
to goal 4, 8 and 16. read more on pages 22-25.
demant is and has always been a responsible and  
well-functioning business and we sincerely believe that 
running our business in a sustainable way is the obvi-
ous, right thing to do.  furthermore, there is business to 
win and effectiveness to be achieved; being a sustainable 
company, dedicating time and investments in the area, 
can contribute to many benefits for the group. please find 
some of the benefits of 2020 in the highlights, targets, 
results and plans on the following pages.
diversity and inclusion
we honour diversity and foster an unbiased and 
inclusive culture with equal opportunities.
climate impact
we reduce our packaging and waste, we support 
production and sourcing of green energy and strive 
for ambitious emission reductions particularly in our 
use of transport. 
our sustainability framework
main priorities
society &  
local community
people &
culture
life-changing
differences through
hearing health
business ethics
& governance
environment
& climate
8
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
the core: life-changing differences through hearing health 
helped nearly 2 million 
hearing aid users and  
well above 10,000 hearing 
implant users suffering 
from profound, conductive 
or single-sided hearing 
loss
facilitated the diagnosing 
of a three-digit million 
number of people with 
suspected hearing loss  
and screening of a 
two-digit million number  
of newborns
research cooperation  
with academia, health  
authorities and the  
industry
r&d  
investments
billion dkk
1.3
9
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
2020 in brief
2020 
3.93
2019 
3.83
people & culture
society & local community
global employee engage-
ment rate increased from 
3.83 to 3.93  
increase of female ratio in 
management from 41% to 
42% 
584
426 
42%       58%
gender distribution
amount of stress  
affected employees at  
danish sites reduced by 
nearly one percentage  
point 
william demant  
foundation donated a total 
of dkk 111,9 million
oticon learning hub  
supported a total of 971 
hearing healthcare profes-
sionals with e-learning  
and online webinars  
screened and tested  
52,342 people through  
our campaign for better 
hearing and raised us  
$ 267,277 
continued engagement  
in ida institute to support  
the continuous work with 
developing knowledge, 
skills and support in  
the fuller aspects of  
person-centred care
total
111.9
dkk million
10
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
new packaging setup for  
all hearing aid brands.  
up to 80% less packaging 
and instructions for use in 
selected markets. 
identified 11.5 tonnes of  
plastic to be reduced in 
production of containers for 
hearing aid filters
due predominantly to  
coronavirus restrictions,  
the group’s greenhouse  
gas (ghg) emissions per 
employee decreased by 
20% in 2020. new climate 
project introduced to set 
science based targets
environment & climate
cardboard boxes to ship 
equipment for diagnostics
of 100% recycled material
business ethics & governance
global business ethics  
compliance program with 
the new demant group 
code of conduct
whistleblower scheme 
introduced in september 
2020 
worked with a total of 327 
active direct suppliers in 
our hearing aids business, 
out of which 322 suppliers 
have signed our demant 
group third party compli-
ance code
demant group third party  
compliance code
page 1 of 11
third party compliance code, 888 04 018 rev. 05
ghg emissions  
per employee 
 
  
decrease
20% 
11
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction  
to demant
12
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
13
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction to demant
who we are
for more than a century, demant has played an indus-
try-leading role in developing innovative technologies and 
know-how to hekp improve human hearing health. from 
this platform we have taken new steps into the broader 
areas of audio. born out of a desire to help people with 
hearing loss, our positive contribution to a healthy society 
has always driven our business and every day our em-
ployees do what they can to make life easier for millions 
of people living with hearing loss. equally important, we 
strive to perfect premium audio and video experiences 
to optimise communication and collaboration between 
people. 
creating life-changing differences through hearing health 
is our core purpose, based on which we ensure our long-
term presence and most impactful contribution to society 
while continuously increasing sustainability of our opera-
tional practices. 
ownership
demant is listed on the nasdaq copenhagen stock  
exchange as one of the 25 most traded shares in terms of 
free floated market capitalisation, also known as the c25 
index. moreover, demant is the parent company behind 
the commercial successes of such world-renowned brands 
as oticon, bernafon, sonic, philips hearing solutions,  
audika, oticon medical, maico, interacoustics, amplivox,  
grason-stadler, medrx, audioscan and epos.
william demant invest a/s (wdi), a company wholly 
owned by william demant foundation, holds the ma-
jority of the shares in demant. our majority ownership 
through william demant foundation provides stability and 
strength for the future. read more about william demant 
foundation and its reinvestments in society, particularly 
hearing healthcare, on pages 74-77.
founded in 1904
operates in +30 
countries
16,591
number of employees
commercial  
presence in 130 
countries
+30 130
all over the world, in every aspect – whether it is hearing aids, hearing care and hear-
ing implants, diagnostic equipment and services, or premium audio solutions designed 
for enterprise and gaming – we are present, active and engaged. we aspire to carve 
new paths within hearing healthcare and audio and strongly believe that we are here to 
make a difference.
14
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
listed on nasdaq 
copenhagen as part 
of the bluechip index, 
c25
total group revenue  
(in the financial year 
of 2020)
14,469
dkk million
(3%)
h1 
dkk 6.078 million  
(-17%)
h2 
dkk 8.391 million  
(11%)
purpose
life-changing
hearing health
performance 2020
a very strong start to the year was disrupted in mid-march 
by the coronavirus pandemic. consequently, group  
revenue of dkk 6.1 billion in the first half of 2020 was 
significantly below expectations. however, we saw strong 
recovery in the hearing healthcare market towards the 
end of the first half and throughout most of the second 
half of the year and for the second half demant group 
delivered revenue of 8.4 billion dkk. with new restrictions 
posed in most countries towards the end of the year, 2020 
ended with uncertainty around timing of normalisation. as 
opposed to the halt we experienced in our hearing health-
care activities, our new communications brand epos ben-
efitted from the surge in demand for virtual collaboration  
tools throughout the year.
sustainability initiatives and priorities do not lose their im-
portance in hard times, in fact, their essentiality becomes 
even more apparent. yet, it has been challenging to keep 
a fire burning under a few of our sustainability projects 
that had either set sail or were planned to do so prior to 
the pandemic. in the first half of the year, we postponed 
the finalisation of our new demant sustainability strategy, 
which we finalised towards the end of the year and now 
plan to start implementing early 2021.
a project to improve our climate footprint baseline and set 
targets for emission reductions has dragged out but it is a  
priority for 2021. throughout this report, you will see that 
the coronavirus situation also affected other sustainability 
related projects across our group.
15
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction to demant
who we are
innovative technologies 
we convey good hearing and perfect audio by constantly 
revolutionising our technology and development efforts. 
through this, we ensure that we always bring true 
innovation to the market in an efficient manner. 
strong synergies
we build strong synergies across the group to increase 
cost efficiency and stay highly competitive. the many 
business areas within demant are autonomous in their go 
to market strategies. yet they collaborate and share re-
sources and technologies in multiple ways throughout the 
entire value chain, including research and development, 
procurement and production and commercial activities. 
these synergies are what makes it possible for millions of 
people to experience the joy of sound. moreover, it keeps 
us on our toes to continuously facilitate smarter ways of 
working. 
business areas 
we operate in five core business areas: hearing aids, 
hearing care, hearing implants, diagnostics and commu-
nications, in which multiple brands have the liberty and 
unique identity to serve their individual markets to their 
fullest potential.
global value chain
raw
materials
suppliers
inbound
logistics
r&d
production
distribution
customers
users
service 
and
repair
logistics
being a global company, our value chain expands across 
countries and involves a vast number of people, commu-
nities and other business around the world. here you can 
see the main stages of our value chain. 
16
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
hospital & clinic
local service desk
hearing care
back to content
diagnostics
• developing, manufacturing and  
marketing a wide range of solutions  
for hearing and balance assessment, 
including instruments, consumables, 
services and installation
• products include audiometers, abr 
equipment for hearing screening of 
newborns, tympanometers, hearing  
aid fitting solutions, balance systems, 
otoacoustic emission instruments as 
well as other solutions used by  
audiologists and ear, nose and  
throat specialists
communications
• developing and marketing premium audio solu-
tions designed for enterprise and gaming applica-
tions under the epos brand
• products include headsets, speakerphones,  
software and accessories
• epos is established with own sales companies in 
16 countries and addresses markets in more than 
50 countries
hearing implants
• providing implantable hearing  
solutions to patients facing the hardest 
hearing challenges 
• cochlear implants and bone anchored 
hearing systems can bypass the  
challenged parts of the inner, outer or  
middle ear, thereby helping patients 
hear better
• performing the surgical procedures at 
hospitals or in an outpatient setting
hearing aids
• covering all ranges of hearing loss from mild to 
severe-to-profound
• boasting the industry’s most advanced centre of 
excellence for research in audiology and hearing 
loss and the development of hearing aids 
• manufacturing and distributing hearing aids to 
hearing clinics, benefitting people in more than  
100 countries
• providing local service, support and training of 
hearing care professionals
hearing care
• global network of approx. 2,500 clinics 
providing hearing care to people with 
hearing loss in 18 countries
• performing hearing tests and fitting 
hearing aids to help users get the right 
hearing aid for their specific hearing 
loss 
• providing service, individualised  
care and aftercare to make sure that 
every hearing aid is active and used 
correctly
17
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
our global presence
revenue by geographical region for the full year 2020
main production in all hearing healthcare  
business activities: mierzyn (poland) and ballerup (denmark).
hearing implants production: nice (france).
hearing aids custom production and service and repair:  
tijuana (mexico), kitchener (canada), somerset, new jersey (us), rio de 
janeiro (brazil), hamilton (uk), hamburg and berlin (germany) firenze  
(italy), istanbul (turkey), johannesburg (south africa), shanghai (china), 
tokyo (japan), seoul (south korea), brisbane (australia). 
introduction to demant
who we are
north america 
37%
europe
45%
18
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
pacific
6%
asia
9%
other 
countries 
3%
19
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction to demant
our approach to sustainability
aside from focusing on our main contribution to society, 
hearing health, we are strengthening sustainability in our 
operational practices. in the coming years, we have two 
main priorities in this regard: 
while these areas are the focus of demant’s new sus-
tainability strategy, we will continue to improve on other 
important areas of our business.
governance
this year, we appointed a sustainability board to drive 
strategic action on the sustainability strategy of the 
demant group. the mission of the board is to ensure that 
sustainability considerations and activities are an integral 
part of both the overall business strategy and the daily 
operations of all business areas, central functions and 
company brands in the group.
the sustainability board is chaired by demant ceo, søren 
nielsen, and all business areas and functions across the 
group are represented to ensure that our sustainability 
framework is implemented in all parts of the business. 
the sustainability board meets approximately six times a 
year. the demant board of directors has the final over-
sight of our sustainability strategy and evaluate on our 
progress on a yearly basis or, if relevant for special sus-
tainability projects, during the year. read more about the 
framework on pages 26-27. 
in 2020, we further developed on our sustainability approach to reflect our  
commitment and ambitions for our work. 
sustainability in demant
diversity and inclusion
we honour diversity and foster an unbiased and 
inclusive culture with equal opportunities.
climate impact
we reduce our packaging and waste, we support 
production and sourcing of green energy and strive 
for ambitious emission reductions particularly in our 
use of transport. 
20
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
looking at our most material issues (see appendix 1), 
we conducted a series of workshops to set ambitions and 
define the strategic direction we want to set for our group 
from a corporate level. 
demant is a diverse group of many different businesses; 
our sustainability strategy and ambitions must include all 
of them while considering their differences. our task is to 
find a sensible balance between ambitious global group 
goals and local freedom to operate, making sure that we 
support the innovative and enterprising culture of which 
we are so proud. 
after evaluating our sustainability work so far, we are 
ready to change our approach. we are replacing our 
former corporate social responsibility framework, which 
consists of 14 principles for good behaviour, with a new 
approach that sets a clear direction and drives action in 
the areas that are most material to us and our stakehold-
ers. the 14 principles of the former framework have been 
integrated into our group-wide code of conduct – the 
standards for ethical behaviour as well as good social and  
environmental governance for all employees. 
board of directors
executive  
management board
sustainability 
board
business areas
and functions
sustainability  
team
sustainability strategy and framework 
in 2020, we built on the materiality analysis process conducted in 2019 to develop a 
new strategy and framework for our sustainability work. 
21
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction to demant
our approach to sustainability
the sustainable development goals 
working on our new sustainability strategy, we revisited 
the sustainable development goals to assess not only 
our current contributions and positive impact but similarly 
identify where we can do more. please find an overview  
of the sdg targets, to which we mainly contribute, in  
appendix 2.
the demant group, along with its owners, contribute 
directly or indirectly to more goals than the ones mentioned 
here. however, we have chosen to focus on the goals on 
which we have the biggest and most direct impact. 
main priorities 
 
strategic sustainability  
projects 
continuous  
improvement
other areas of  
special attention 
purpose and core 
contribution
life-changing differences 
through hearing health
22
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
23
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
goal 3 
good health and  
well-being
here lies our main contribu-
tion to sustainable devel-
opment. our core business 
and purpose changes the 
lives of people with hear-
ing loss. from when they 
are hearing screened as 
newborns or tested in our 
clinics, until their hearing 
loss is treated; we stay in 
their lives, consistently, 
improving their hearing 
abilities and experiences. 
we contribute to 
ground-breaking health 
research through our daily 
work and r&d efforts as 
well as through special 
projects funded by wil-
liam demant foundation. 
finally, we do our best to 
promote a system of care 
and rehabilitation within 
hearing health by collab-
orating with national and 
political institutions on 
seeking the best way to 
treat hearing loss.
goal 9 
industry, innovation and 
infrastructure
by providing ground-break-
ing scientific research and 
boosting r&d spending 
in the countries where 
we operate with r&d, we 
bring innovation to society. 
through william demant 
foundation, we make 
donations to universities 
around the world and con-
tribute with cutting-edge 
health research.
 
goal 5 
gender equality
here, we have an oppor-
tunity to make a larger 
contribution to the goals 
by increasing our focus on 
equal access to positions, 
development opportunities 
and management roles at 
all levels. 
diversity is fundamental 
to driving a successful 
business, but women are 
underrepresented in top 
managerial positions, where 
we also see an underrep-
resentation of nationalities 
(other than danes). we are 
working on creating an even 
more diverse and inclu-
sive organisational culture, 
considering diversity to be 
much broader than gender.
goal 12 
responsible consumption 
and production
there is much to gain by 
further addressing how 
our products, services and 
business operations impact 
the environment. challeng-
ing business as usual, we 
continue to limit waste, 
packaging and the use of 
plastic and pursue using 
more sustainable materials 
in our operations, produc-
tion and products.
 
introduction to demant
our approach to sustainability
purpose and core contribution
main priorities
24
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
main priorities
continuous improvement
goal 13  
climate action
we are committed to reduc-
ing our climate impact and 
support the paris agree-
ment. we strongly believe 
all large-scale companies 
can do their part to combat 
climate change and we 
have joined the danish  
climate committee to 
support this obligation. 
addressing our product 
footprints, waste, our  
sourcing of energy as well 
as our transport and trav-
els, we have the potential  
to make a solid contribution 
to goal 13. 
goal 4 
quality education
through our products and 
services, we offer the gift 
of sound to people with 
hearing loss. good hearing 
capabilities are essential for 
inclusive and equal access 
to education and employ-
ment. furthermore, we 
foster education by donat-
ing to educational projects 
through william demant 
foundation.
goal 8  
decent work and  
economic growth
as a responsible employer, 
we offer quality job oppor-
tunities and good working 
conditions for our employ-
ees. as a catalyst for jobs, 
we stimulate the economy 
while reducing the negative 
impact we have on our sur-
roundings. 
we protect labour rights and 
promote safe and secure 
working environments for all 
employees within our group 
and we work with suppliers 
to ensure good working con-
ditions in their end as well. 
by providing the ability to 
hear, we make it possible for 
people with hearing loss to 
enter or stay in the labour 
market. through our audio 
solutions, we boost collabo-
ration and productivity.
goal 16 
peace, justice and strong  
institutions
our main contribution to 
this goal lies within our 
work with our code of  
conduct, especially our 
efforts to eliminate  
bribery and corruption.  
to us, business ethics are 
an undeniable part of  
conducting a sustainable 
business. we are commit-
ted to detect non-compliant 
and unethical behaviour 
within our value chain and 
to act as a role model.
25
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
introduction to demant
our sustainability framework 
it is clear where our core contribution to society lies:  
creating life-changing differences through hearing health. 
this is the core of our sustainability framework. connected 
to the core, we have four pillars that have to do with our 
operational practices. for each pillar we have individual 
ambitions, projects and targets that drive our progress. 
we will reveal more details on our strategy in 2021 as we 
are still working on the specifics of some of our targets. 
for now, we present the essence of our framework and 
the top priorities that will guide our work and contribution 
to the sustainable development goals. 
our approach to sustainability
• employee engagement & well-being
• leadership & talent development
• diversity & inclusion
• green energy
• waste, plastics & packaging
• transport and travel activities
• charitable donations
• special hearing health projects
• community engagements
• ethical behaviour
• responsible procurement
• human rights
society &  
local community
people &
culture
life-changing
differences through
hearing health
business ethics
& governance
environment
& climate
26
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
• ethical behaviour
• responsible procurement
• human rights
the core: life-changing differences 
through hearing health
demant is an impact business. through more than 115 
years, our company has developed hearing health and 
from this platform we have taken news steps into the 
broader area of audio. hearing and the ability to innovate 
this area is the essence of our group. 
read more about the life-changing differences we create 
through hearing health on pages 28-49.
people & culture
our employees are our biggest strength and most valuable 
resource. their well-being and engagement are funda-
mental to our success and a top priority of our manage-
ment. 
one of our main priorities in our demant sustainability 
strategy is diversity and inclusion. we want to foster an 
unbiased and inclusive culture with equal opportunities. 
read more about the results of our work with people  
& culture on pages 50-67.
society & local community
a company is an important part of society and, to the  
demant group, is it imperative to be a good neighbour in 
the communities in which we operate. that means sharing 
our resources, donating to purposeful causes and engag-
ing in impactful projects around the world.
read about the results of our work with society & local 
community in 2020 on pages 68-77.
environment & climate 
in the demant group, we want to leave the planet in  
good shape for future generations. therefore, we need  
to address our impact and limit our footprint.
one of the main priorities in our sustainability strategy is 
addressing our climate impact. in 2021, we will continue 
to work thoroughly to improve our data and baseline,  
setting specific targets for our emission reductions. this 
work includes getting ready to set science based targets. 
read about the results of our work with environment  
& climate in 2020 on pages 78-95.
business ethics & governance
in demant, we comply with all rules and regulations and 
it is important that we always conduct our business in an 
ethical manner. we believe that going further than what 
local laws prescribe can be necessary and have a positive 
effect on local governments and practices.
read about the results of our work with business ethics  
& governance in 2020 on pages 96-113. 
27
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing  
differences  
through  
hearing health 
28
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing  
differences  
through  
hearing health 
29
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing differences through hearing health
area
2020 target
2020 actions or results
2021 targets
quality of life
initiate project
defined research project that enables 
us to quantify our core contribution, 
life-changing hearing health, by assessing 
and measuring how a remedied hearing 
loss improve hearing-related quality
of life
scope study
new brainhearing™ perspective
gain insights from the latest scientific 
discovery on how the brain naturally
processes and understands sounds
integrated the new insights into the  
development of the latest technology. 
completed research studies, in collabo-
ration with eriksholm research centre, 
which demonstrated brainhearing  
benefits such as better representation of 
the full sound scene, more successful and 
less effortful listening using oticon more 
hearing aids
continue to deepen our knowledge in  
different areas related to brainhearing 
and explore new dimensions of benefit 
using new outcome measures
bear study
scope insights into and kick off
large-scale study
gained insight into customisation in  
public hearing care clinics and scoping 
these into a large-scale study which  
was kicked off
continue study to evaluate individualisa-
tion’s impact on users 
user-operated audiometry (uaud)
n/a
initiated study to eventually improve hear-
ing tests to benefit both patients  
and hearing care professionals
n/a
bimodal hearing at copenhagen  
hearing and balance centre (chbc)
kick off longitudinal study
developed bimodal testing protocol,  
recruited new phd student, submitted and 
approved for ethics
recruit participants and begin study
center for music in the brain (mib)
scope 
built a strong collaboration between  
the center for music in the brain and  
university of southampton
apply for funding
as an impact business, demant contributes  
to the world’s hearing health. the core of our 
business and what we do has a positive impact 
on health and well-being, as life without access 
to proper sound can have several consequences 
for our mental health and general quality of life.
30
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
area
2020 target
2020 actions or results
2021 targets
quality of life
initiate project
defined research project that enables 
us to quantify our core contribution, 
life-changing hearing health, by assessing 
and measuring how a remedied hearing 
loss improve hearing-related quality
of life
scope study
new brainhearing™ perspective
gain insights from the latest scientific 
discovery on how the brain naturally
processes and understands sounds
integrated the new insights into the  
development of the latest technology. 
completed research studies, in collabo-
ration with eriksholm research centre, 
which demonstrated brainhearing  
benefits such as better representation of 
the full sound scene, more successful and 
less effortful listening using oticon more 
hearing aids
continue to deepen our knowledge in  
different areas related to brainhearing 
and explore new dimensions of benefit 
using new outcome measures
bear study
scope insights into and kick off
large-scale study
gained insight into customisation in  
public hearing care clinics and scoping 
these into a large-scale study which  
was kicked off
continue study to evaluate individualisa-
tion’s impact on users 
user-operated audiometry (uaud)
n/a
initiated study to eventually improve hear-
ing tests to benefit both patients  
and hearing care professionals
n/a
bimodal hearing at copenhagen  
hearing and balance centre (chbc)
kick off longitudinal study
developed bimodal testing protocol,  
recruited new phd student, submitted and 
approved for ethics
recruit participants and begin study
center for music in the brain (mib)
scope 
built a strong collaboration between  
the center for music in the brain and  
university of southampton
apply for funding
31
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing differences through hearing health
living with an untreated hearing loss can have an array 
of consequences for human life, including one’s ability to 
communicate properly, socialise and engage actively with 
others without constraints that are both physically and 
mentally tiring. through this contribution, we enable  
millions of people to experience the joy of good hearing,  
as sound is part of many of life’s most important  
moments and aspects. 
in 2020 we helped nearly 2 million hearing aid users and 
well above 10,000 hearing implant users suffering from 
profound, conductive, and single sided hearing loss.  
compared to 2019, these slightly lower numbers mirror 
the negative effect on the hearing healthcare market by 
the coronavirus pandemic. 
our technology helped diagnose a three-digit million num-
ber of people with suspected hearing loss and screened a 
two-digit million number of new-borns. as these numbers 
are based on daily clinical use of our equipment, we do not 
expect them to change significantly from year to year.
impact on hearing healthcare
i spend at least half my day reviewing 
findings with patients,  
and interacoustics visualeyes™ is by far 
the best system i have  
seen for this purpose. 
dr. glen zielinski, dc, dacnb, facfn is a chiropractic  
physician, board certified functional neurologist and 
founder of northwest functional neurology,  
lake oswego, oregon, us 
our core contribution
we take great pride in the demant group’s ability to contribute towards and innovate 
the area of hearing health and create life-changing differences to the lives of people 
suffering from hearing loss.   
32
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
the importance of hearing health 
being able to hear and communicate clearly greatly 
improves how we live our lives. it improves our ability to 
take part in unlocking educational, social and professional 
potential. all things that ultimately make us capable of a 
more active lifestyle. 
hearing health is not only about hearing, but about  
overall health and well-being. we know this from years 
of research, which has deepened our understanding of 
the detailed relationship between hearing, health and the 
brain.
it is this type of knowledge that enable us to do what we 
do. for example, when we support the brain in processing 
sound; improve mapping of medical implants to accom-
modate individual needs; diagnose hearing loss among 
newborns; battle listening effort to relieve the brain to 
potentially help protect from cognitive decline; or secure 
a healthy audio environment in enterprises and among 
the top gamers in the world. together, our core business 
presents a life quality improvement for people in all stages 
of life.
active hearing aids use may protect 
against dementia 
echoing previous studies, the lancet commission, a well-
known and high impact peer-reviewed journal within 
general medicine, encourage active use of hearing aids 
in their 2020 report on dementia prevention, intervention 
and care. in fact, hearing loss is the largest modifiable risk 
factor against dementia that we can actually act upon1. 
access and awareness
did you know that 466 million people live with hearing 
loss worldwide? in fact, current estimates suggest that 
only 17% of the people who need their hearing loss  
alleviated actually use a hearing aid2.
creating life-changing differences through hearing health 
is not just about offering essential products and solutions 
that stand on the shoulders of excellent innovations and 
technology. part of demant’s responsibility as a leading 
hearing healthcare company is also to inform and create 
awareness of the negative effects of untreated hearing 
loss. to us, information and access are central to  
conveying good hearing health. 
how intrusive is a hearing loss?  
though it is evident in research and hard to debate 
that an untreated hearing loss can have serious 
consequences for a person’s way of living life, we 
wish to dig even deeper into the consequences of 
untreated hearing loss, and how different types of 
hearing care can help.
equal to the fundamentals of research and devel-
opment, there is always more to learn. to generate 
even more knowledge on how lack of proper sound 
affects quality of life, we will initiate a new research 
project in 2021. this will seek to quantify our core 
contribution by assessing and measuring how a 
remedied hearing loss can improve hearing-related 
quality of life3.
1 g. livingston, jonathan huntley, andrew sommerlad, et al. dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2020 report of the lancet commission. the lancet. july 30, 2020. 
2 who, march 2020
3 national center for chronic disease prevention and health promotion, division of population health
33
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing differences through hearing health
as a life-science company, demant innovates the hearing 
area and breaks boundaries to provide the joy of sound. 
being innovative is a central landmark for our entire group 
and our ability to rethink and develop technologies, which 
then come to life in our products and solutions, is part of 
what makes us who we are.
the remainder of this chapter is a brief look into some  
of the aspects of our group’s work within research,  
development and technology which are imperative to  
our contribution to health and well-being. 
innovation and ground-breaking  
technology
our contribution to global hearing health, including the generation of knowledge and 
evidence in hearing health science, is our greatest pride and what enables us to do 
what we do. this innovative leverage is a result of strong synergies between our  
different departments of research, development and technology - as well as  
impactful collaborations across sectors.
research and innovation
the positive difference is that one
can hear more – there are many more 
‘smaller’ sounds. when i was putting them 
[the hearing aids] on, i could hear someone 
walk – i heard someone put down a box – 
those sounds i would not normally react to.
 lone, oticon more user*
*these testimonials represent the opinion of the concerned individual only and may not be representative of the experience of others. the testimonials are not paid and may 
not be indicative of the future performance or success of any other individuals
34
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
35
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
life-changing differences through hearing health
when we talk about hearing, we instinctively think about 
the ear as the part of our body that is responsible. though 
that is true, it is not the full picture. in fact, what we now 
know is that is a large part of our hearing takes place in 
the brain, as it is the brain that processes and interprets 
the sounds we hear. we refer to this insight as our brain-
hearing perspective.
supporting the brain
thanks to our brainhearing research and approach we 
came to realise that how the brain processes sound has 
been more or less a mystery to us until now. this insight 
stresses that hearing care is brain care and hearing care 
solutions should support the brain’s way of making sense 
of sound. senior research audiologist and ph.d. at  
demant, elaine ng, explains the magnitude of this  
new knowledge: 
the new perspective in hearing care is 
ground-breaking, i believe. research has 
unfolded the next level of understanding 
of the hearing centre in the brain. that 
used to be a black box to us, and we
now understand that there are two sub-
systems we have to support in order to 
help people with hearing loss in the best 
way possible.
your brain hears as much as your ears
brainhearing™ is the guiding star for our research and technological development.  
the newest perspective in brainhearing, brought forward in 2020, sheds light on how 
hearing loss should be treated and provides us with valuable insights into defining the 
next step of hearing healthcare. 
research and innovation
36
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
the full sound scene
the research results speak for themselves: the brain  
needs access to the entire sound scene to zoom in on the 
particular sounds that are crucial for interpretation in a 
given situation. 
hearing technology that fails to provide optimal access to 
sounds, risk increasing listening effort and mental load, 
which, in a long-term perspective, may lead to reorganised 
brain function and a changed cognitive system, elaine ng, 
explains:
“when most of our mental resources and effort goes into 
listening, less capacity is left for keeping fit other crucial  
functions that the brain is responsible for, such as the ones 
that remember and recognise. we also know that when 
your hearing sense is poor, other senses, such as vision, 
might take over and eventually take up the brain region 
responsible for hearing, also known as the  
auditory area.”
to accommodate for this, the brainhearing perspective 
offers a direct cognitive benefit to the brain, supporting its 
natural hearing process:  
“the brain imaging studies, which let us into the wonders 
of the brain and how it hears, show us that when it comes 
to technology that improves hearing, it is not only about 
making sounds loud or clear but rather, about the cogni-
tive benefit and what is healthy and good for the brain.  
to put it plainly, it is about how we can help the brain  
understand the sounds,” she explains.
brainhearing technology, as is used in the new oticon 
more hearing aid, enables us to provide people with  
hearing care solutions that naturally support how the 
brain works and the way it processes sound. it also helps 
hearing care professionals by making it easier to fit the 
hearing aids to individual needs. 
exciting times for hearing care 
the new perspective on brainhearing has great 
potential for further research. it also suggests that 
we can use the brain scanning methods, which led 
us to understand how the brain processes sound, 
to optimise hearing at every stage across other of 
our business areas. in the future, we will learn more 
about how changes in the brain relate to listening 
difficulties and challenges, while continuing to  
expand our knowledge of how the brain hears.
37
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
creating awareness 
the research activities at eriksholm are linked across 
three main themes to gain a new understanding of how 
we steer attention with the brain, the consequences of 
cognitive effort and peripheral hearing loss. we share our 
insights into hearing problems and the data describing it 
to help raise awareness about hearing problems. we  
document the impact, as well as our interaction with 
hearing aid users and their representative organisations 
highlight the responsibility that we have for making sure 
that hearing healthcare technology actually helps1.
study of everyday hearing situations
our research is driven by the wish to maximise benefits  
for users of hearing devices while at the same time  
minimising the effort required by both the user and the 
hearing care professional. to pursue this ambition, we 
continue to involve data that is collected in the real world 
to supplement the laboratory-based research and in  
2020 eriksholm research centre completed the three  
and a half year long eu funded evotion project  
https://h2020evotion.eu/
evotion is a collaboration between 12 partners in  
european countries and one of the largest research  
studies of hearing aid use in everyday hearing situations, 
using big data. 1000 participants wore hearing aids for a 
year to collect information about the sound environments 
and the detailed use of the hearing aids, providing an 
unprecedented view into how people use hearing aids in 
real-life situations. based on this, we now have a better 
understanding of patterns in daily hearing aid use as well 
as the limitations that hearing loss seems to impose on 
everyday life2  for people with hearing loss. 
the key to effective communication
hearing-impaired people often report it difficult to com-
municate and understand speech in noisy environments. 
the constant challenge to effectively communicate can 
have severe consequences leading to mental fatigue, 
poorer mental health and increased sick leave from work. 
we know that it is crucial to identify these challenges and 
to develop tools and tests that can measure communi-
cation difficulties. to strengthen this area, the h2020 eu 
marie-curie itn project “innovative hearing aid research 
eriksholm research centre
at oticon’s research centre, eriksholm, we pursue audiological discoveries with the  
potential to significantly enhance the benefits in future hearing healthcare. 
research and innovation
life-changing differences through hearing health
1 pontoppidan, n. h., & best, l. (2019). big data supporting public hearing health policies. efhoh newsletter, 8, 1–39.
2 pontoppidan, n. h., bramsløw, l., & christensen, j. h. (2019). user behavior with evotion hearing aids. 23rd international congress on acoustics, ica 2019, pp–3866
38
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
– ecological conditions and outcome measures” (hear-
eco) aims at developing and combining new tools and 
outcome measures for realistic communication and at 
translating these tools into innovative developments and 
evaluations of new technology for people with hearing 
loss.
as part of (hear-eco) project, in 2020, eriksholm  
research centre also did a study to learn more about 
listeners motivation and fatigue when communicating. 
previous research shows that listening effort, such as the 
cognitive recourses that a person exerts to accomplish a 
listening task, might not only depend on the difficulty of 
the listening situation, but also on the person’s current mo-
tivation. to shed light on these dependencies, we studied 
interaction of motivation and fatigue on pupillary response 
by measuring pupillary response as an indicator of the 
listening effort during speech recognition.
https://www.eriksholm.com/research/hear-eco
life-changing differences through hearing health
who’s talking 
everyday communication scenarios often include 
multiple concurrent talkers and requires the listener 
to be able to selectively attend to one talker while 
ignoring other interfering talkers or background 
noise. behavioural studies show that among  
hearing-impaired listeners, this ability to segregate 
multiple talkers and selectively attend to a partic-
ular talker is not as strong. research on electroen-
cephalogram (eeg) signals enables us to learn how 
sounds are representative in the brain and how this 
is affected by hearing loss. 
evotion at folkemødet 2019
this lack of ability to perform selective  
attention makes complex listening  
situations with multiple speakers talking 
at the same time very difficult to follow 
for people with hearing loss. by mimicking 
real life situations (such as a crowded  
restaurant) in our lab, we are able to 
prove that modern hearing aids equipped 
with noise reduction help the brain  
organise the sounds by amplifying the 
speech and attenuating undesired noise.
senior scientist, dorothea wendt.
39
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
research and innovation
part of the daily job of hearing care professionals and 
audiologists around the world is to carry out manually 
run hearing tests, which can be rather time consuming. 
the current waiting time for getting a hearing test done 
in denmark is around eight months, but what if running 
a hearing test could be done automatically, leaving more 
time for counselling and treatment?
automated hearing tests
this is exactly what a new research project, user-operated 
audiometry (uaud), seeks to remedy, by changing the 
approach entirely and saving time. it is said that, on  
average, it takes seven years to seek treatment from  
the first time you experience hearing loss. by eliminating 
several months of this period, we hope to be able to  
speed up the treatment processes. for example, the auto-
mated test can be taken in a doctor’s waiting room or in a 
public library without the presence of a hearing healthcare 
professional. 
language independent
the uaud project not only hopes to benefit hearing loss 
patients in denmark but to benefit people with hearing  
impairment around the world. the goal is to develop  
hearing tests that can be used regardless of language and 
do not depend on language-specific speech material.
to demant, being part of the cross-sectorial uaud project 
is also an opportunity to trial the test in a large panel of 
people with different kinds of hearing losses – including 
those who really struggle with understanding speech in 
noisy environments.
the project is backed by millions of funding, including  
dkk 2.4 million from william demant foundation. 
read more about the foundation on page 74.
 
phasing out waiting time for tests
people with suspected hearing loss wait for months for hearing tests at the hospitals. 
to improve the process for users and professionals alike, interacoustics and oticon 
joined forces with odense university hospital and university of southern denmark  
to find a way to optimise testing. 
life-changing differences through hearing health
40
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
41
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
music appreciation for cochlear  
implant users
alongside center for music in the brain (mib) at aarhus 
university, denmark, oticon medical is scoping a study of 
complex rhythm, expected to begin in 2021. the project 
will look at eeg measures of how ci users experience a 
sensation of groove’ when listening to a particular rhythm 
or a complex piece of music. perception of music and how 
the brain processes music are central focal points of the 
study and the dynamic interplay between predictable 
structures in music and predictive brain processing is a  
key determinant of perception and enjoyment of music.
the importance of music
listening to music evokes many cognitive processes, 
including emotional responses, and music can be both 
highly relaxing and even support management of mental 
health conditions such as stress. music also triggers asso-
ciations and activates motor functions such as tapping or 
dancing, and it plays an important role in social interac-
tions. while ci technology is highly successful for restoring 
access to spoken language, music is a much more chal-
lenging timulus for the ci, leading to significantly reduced  
pleasure when listening to music.
i have always loved music, but now that 
i have the streamerxm it is a fantastic 
experience. i am discovering new  
instruments, new beats. the music is  
just a nicer experience. but i also use it  
for the phone. that is working great too. 
i am really happy about it. 
kim, ci user*  
as part of demant’s dedication to support the research community in bringing music to 
cochlear implant (ci) users, oticon medical collaborates with aarhus university to scope 
a large-scale, cross-national study of the dynamic interplay between music and brain 
activity.
research and innovation
*these testimonials represent the opinion of the concerned individual only and may not be representative of the experience of others. the testimonials are not paid and may 
not be indicative of the future performance or success of any other individuals
life-changing differences through hearing health
42
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
more joy in music 
the collaboration with mib can potentially teach us even 
more about how to make music further enjoyable to 
people with a ci.  by presenting a complex rhythm along 
with vibro-tactile stimulation, we are able to see whether 
the brain is more entrained, which entails improved music 
pleasure. the tactile element can be a watch with multiple 
vibrating sensors that supplements the acoustic signal 
from the music with something that vibrates on the skin. 
this knowledge can turn into an accessory to support our 
cis to improve experience of listening to musical sounds 
and help users appreciate music better, perhaps even 
understand speech better. we are excited about this new 
area of multi-sensory integration within hearing implants. 
the music in the brain project is part of our large portfolio 
within music and ci, including the bi-annual music  
& cochlear implants symposium. although it is not a 
simple fix but an effort which requires substantial research 
and technology development in the years to come, we are 
highly determined to bring a better music experience to  
ci users.
life-changing differences through hearing health
cochlear implantation is a technology which is 
capable of restoring language perception in patients 
with severe-to-profound hearing loss. this success, 
however, is currently not mirrored in the domain of 
music perception, leading to significantly reduced 
pleasure when listening to music, because music 
typically is an extremely complex acoustic signal.
43
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
the challenge of bimodal hearing 
as a partner in chbc, demant company oticon medical 
is involved in a large cochlear implant (ci) research study 
focused on bimodal ci users. bimodal listeners combine 
a ci on one ear and a hearing aid on the other and today, 
the vast majority of ci patients are bimodal. according to 
kathleen faulkner scalzo, clinical research study coordi-
nator at oticon medical, this population is one of today’s 
most central challenges:
“bimodal listeners may experience greater levels of listen-
ing effort because they must make sense of two different 
types of sound inputs (acoustic and electric). this poses 
an intense task for the brain and this study aims to  
accommodate a large number of patients, currently  
wearing hearing aids, that seek cochlear implantation.” 
creating value in the clinics 
while bimodal fittings are considered to be the standard 
of care, there is a need for high quality evidence about 
best-practices and fitting flow to optimise patient’s  
outcomes, including a combination of objective, subjective 
and real-world benefits experienced by bimodal patients. 
consequently, in collaboration with the new copenhagen 
hearing and balance centre, we focus entirely on  
important clinical outcome measures that will provide  
the most value for driving clinical decision-making when  
it comes to bimodal patients. 
quality of life
echoing demant’s overarching purpose of creating 
life-changing difference, the study of bimodal hearing also 
seeks to tailor the bimodal fitting for each patient based 
on behavioral and imaging data which may lead to better 
bimodal outcomes. it also measures how different ways 
of integrating a ci with a hearing aid impact patients’ life 
and the quality of it. 
by bringing together medical clinicians, medico-tech scientists and industrial resources, 
the new copenhagen hearing and balance centre (chbc) in denmark mobilises  
everything related to adult audiology under the same roof, combining testing, implant 
programming and surgeries. 
research and innovation
life-changing differences through hearing health
44
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
if a patient gets a ci and maybe does 
not do that well on a test of for instance 
speech recognition, but they report that 
they feel confident, less tired and even 
happier, then that is an important  
measure.
kathleen faulkner scalzo,  
clinical research study coordinator at oticon medical
rigshospitalet (copenhagen university hospital) 
photo: adam mørk
bimodal means having an implant on 
one ear and a hearing aid on the other 
and today, the vast majority of ci  
patients are bimodal.
life-changing differences through hearing health
the centre covers any aspect of diagnostics, treatment 
and patient care, rehabilitation, basic and applied science, 
clinical studies and trials and education and training of 
patients and staff at any level. in 2019, william demant 
foundation helped fund the establishment of the hearing 
and balance centre with dkk 40 million. the study runs 
in parallel to another bimodal study at odense universi-
ty hospital funded by the foundation. this study aligns 
assessments to be able to pool data on speech outcomes 
and listening effort across the two studies. together the 
studies comprise a cohort of up to 100 bimodal patients. 
data on such a large cohort of bimodal patients is unique 
in denmark and even at international level. learn more 
about the foundation on pages 74-77.
45
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
improving hearing rehabilitation  
across sectors
demant continues to be actively involved in the danish bear study that innovates  
and investigates the benefits of better individualisation of treatment for people who  
are fitted with hearing aids from the public healthcare system. 
research and innovation
it is a common problem that danish public healthcare  
providers do not have the proper resources to provide  
customisation. to facilitate better hearing rehabilitation, 
the long-term bear (better hearing rehabilitation)  
project, going on four years now, investigates how diagno-
sis of hearing loss and customisation of hearing aids can 
be improved. according to sébastien santurette, senior 
researcher at oticon’s centre of applied audiology  
reserach, the project is about thinking outside the box:
bear is about rethinking and being in-
novative to find new ways of addressing 
how we fit hearing aids in the clinics, 
and particularly how we can individual-
ise diagnosis of hearing loss. we want 
to understand the workflow in the clinics 
to find out how to support and improve 
it from the first fitting. it is us challenging 
the status quo, really.
sébastien santurette, senior researcher at oticon’s  
centre of applied audiology research
life-changing differences through hearing health
46
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
the importance of individualisation 
two different patients can have the same audiogram that 
categorises the nature of their hearing, but they might still 
experience very different issues with speech understand-
ing in noise, as well as other aspects of sound perception. 
these variances are not optimally reflected in what is 
measured in the clinic today and it is this situation the 
bear project seeks to improve.
everyone wins
the bear project is a large collaboration between the 
industry, public clinics and academia. we join forces in  
the collective cause for better hearing rehabilitation.  
according to sébastien, the industry plays an essential 
role in the study: “we have people that sit on central 
knowledge of the technical aspects of hearing aids and  
on what works and does not work in terms of fittings. 
these are people who are used to working with hearing 
care professionals and knowledgable on how to train 
and guide,” he explains. “all parts in the study need one 
another’s expertise to turn the project insights into real-life 
hearing care and in the end, everyone wins: patients,  
clinics, universities and companies.”
prospects
in 2020, the project gained insight into the relevant con-
siderations to make in the clinic. this year was about 
scoping these into the next step: a large-scale, clinical 
study. it began at the end of 2020 and involves over 500 
patients across two large danish cities to evaluate individ-
ualisation’s impact on users, including testing the four dif-
ferent prescriptions of how to adjust hearing aids. despite 
uncertainty related to the coronavirus, the prospects for 
the future are exciting:
“in the long run, the hope is that we come up with some 
sort of standardisation for how to better assess hearing 
loss and fit hearing aids. in parallel, in demant, we are 
already working on implementing the knowledge that we 
gain from the study into, for instance, diagnostic tools,” 
sébastien santurette concludes.
life-changing differences through hearing health
47
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
epos provides premium audio that enables easy com-
munication, collaboration and immersion experiences, 
which is not just about good technology. premium audio 
experiences assist individuals and teams to reach their 
goals and perform better. in an age where urgent action 
is required to mitigate the impact of rapid change, allow-
ing people to connect globally from their own location 
is crucial. as a result, access to good quality video and 
collaboration tools is very important and the coronavirus 
pandemic has merely accelerated, not created, the need 
for new audio and video solutions. yet, access to proper 
audio is not just about reaching colleagues, partners and 
customers, it can be a driver for improved physical and 
mental well-being. 
excellent audio benefits well-being
in 2020, epos examined the current state of audio in 
modern working environments. the research surveyed 
decisionmakers and end-users of audio solutions and it 
showed that 95% of today’s modern workers admit that 
their concentration and efficiency at work has suffered  
due to sonic setbacks. 25% of the sample experience  
moments of stress and 35% feel frustration and irritation 
due to bad audio1. 
the most common issues include excessive background 
noise, having to repeat oneself and asking for others to 
repeat something being said. the emotional impact shown 
here, indicates that poor audio affects our well-being and, 
as a consequent hereof, potentially our confidence (15%) 
and focus (48%). 
69% of the sample spend extra time on their tasks due to 
bad sound quality. this indicates that poor audio becomes 
a matter of loss of productivity, which connect to cost  
repercussions. based on the findings, we can hypothesise 
on the effects of excellent audio quality. it can result in  
a less stressful work situation; easier access to what is  
being said on the other end of the connection and ability 
to move around more freely.
the power of audio  
our communications business, epos, strive to unleash human potential by perfecting 
audio experience and delivering innovative design and performances with all their  
audio solutions. in 2020, epos conducted a study that shed light on the mental benefits 
of having excellent audio in the workplace.  
research and innovation
life-changing differences through hearing health
1 “what”: the most expensive word in business – understanding sound experiences, 2020  
48
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
life-changing differences through hearing health
69%
35%
25%
95% of today’s modern workers admit that their concentration and efficiency  
at work has suffered due to sonic setbacks
spend extra time on 
their work tasks due 
to poor sound quality
feel frustration, irrita-
tion and annoyance 
due to bad audio
experience moments 
of stress
49
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people  
& culture
50
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
51
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
area
2020 target
2020 results
2021 targets
diversity and inclusion
n/a
female ratio in management increased 
with one percentage point
n/a
diversity and inclusion
n/a
first steps to establish a new demant 
diversity and inclusion policy
introduce new demant diversity and 
inclusion policy
diversity and inclusion
at least two female members in the  
board of directors 
board of directors elected another female 
member
n/a
engagement
grow engagement
engagement rate increased from 3.83 to 
3.93 (on a 5-scale)
engagement rate 4.15 in 2021
engagement
further implementation of employee en-
gagement survey
consolidated our engagement processes 
in our current scope
enroll the new brand epos, sales offices 
and clinics in israel and production site in 
mexico
engagement
increase ability to work with employee 
engagement globally
supported existing process
understand impacts of coronavirus on 
engagement
stress management
reduce stress incidents at danish sites
percentage of stress affected employees 
at danish sites reduced by nearly one 
percentage point
increase sick leave efforts and introduce 
stress awareness workshops 
health and safety
n/a
reduced number of reportable accidents 
in hearing aids global operations and 
diagnostics
n/a
people development
to utilise new ways of learning
implemented a new global learning expe-
rience and knowledge sharing platform 
aimed at strengthening learning, knowl-
edge sharing and networking across the 
group. we piloted a new leadership
development program anchored in
our new leadership framework
continue development of a new leader-
ship training program to support our use 
of the leadership framework
the demant group holds numerous innovative 
and entrepreneurial employees that are driven  
by a desire to make a change and to do business 
in a proper way. our employees are our biggest 
strength and most valuable resource. their 
well-being and engagement are fundamental  
to our success and a top priority of our  
management. 
being in an industry with low risk of accidents 
in our production, 2020 probably brought some 
of the biggest risks we have seen in a long time 
to our employees’ well-being: the consequences 
of the coronavirus. being isolated, working from 
home, trying to balance home life with work were 
challenges that we were – and still are – very 
aware off. the new situation required new ways 
of working for managers and employees alike 
and we did our best to keep team spirits high 
and stay connected virtually.  
52
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
area
2020 target
2020 results
2021 targets
diversity and inclusion
n/a
female ratio in management increased 
with one percentage point
n/a
diversity and inclusion
n/a
first steps to establish a new demant 
diversity and inclusion policy
introduce new demant diversity and 
inclusion policy
diversity and inclusion
at least two female members in the  
board of directors 
board of directors elected another female 
member
n/a
engagement
grow engagement
engagement rate increased from 3.83 to 
3.93 (on a 5-scale)
engagement rate 4.15 in 2021
engagement
further implementation of employee en-
gagement survey
consolidated our engagement processes 
in our current scope
enroll the new brand epos, sales offices 
and clinics in israel and production site in 
mexico
engagement
increase ability to work with employee 
engagement globally
supported existing process
understand impacts of coronavirus on 
engagement
stress management
reduce stress incidents at danish sites
percentage of stress affected employees 
at danish sites reduced by nearly one 
percentage point
increase sick leave efforts and introduce 
stress awareness workshops 
health and safety
n/a
reduced number of reportable accidents 
in hearing aids global operations and 
diagnostics
n/a
people development
to utilise new ways of learning
implemented a new global learning expe-
rience and knowledge sharing platform 
aimed at strengthening learning, knowl-
edge sharing and networking across the 
group. we piloted a new leadership
development program anchored in
our new leadership framework
continue development of a new leader-
ship training program to support our use 
of the leadership framework
53
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
demant wishes to remain an open and inclusive group 
that nurtures diversity and strives for it in candidate 
shortlists for any vacancy. we take pride in ensuring 
equal access to positions, development opportunities and 
management roles at all levels, not only to play our part 
in redeeming imbalance, but simply because diversity is 
fundamental to a successful business.
diversity and inclusion policy
since 2012, demant has had a diversity policy as well as 
specific initiatives aimed at ensuring equal terms between 
genders. age, gender, education and background of the 
members of board of directors and executive board are 
listed in the annual report 2020. at the annual general 
meeting in march 2020, the board of directors reached 
its target to have at least two female members of the five 
shareholder elected members before the end of 2020. 
with a ratio of 40/60% the target was met. 
as part of our ambitions in terms of diversity and inclusion, 
we have worked on preparing a new demant diversity 
and inclusion policy, which will cover a broader definition 
of diversity than merely gender. in 2020, we took steps 
towards this ambition and expect to introduce the policy in 
2021. we are still working on amending this policy for the 
group and will in that context decide on our need to have 
a diversity policy with a broader definition of diversity for 
the board of directors and executive board.
diversity
diversity and inclusion
we want to promote an organisational culture characterised by care and respect for 
others. with an increasing need to attract talent across genders, borders, cultures and 
backgrounds, diversity and inclusion are important drivers to us. 
54
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
*our current scope includes 11,172 fulltime employees
6,716 
60%      40%
 
gender distribution  
all employees*
4,456  
55
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
58%   42%
(57%)   (43%)
canada
52%   48%
portugal
44%   56%
spain
united kingdom
55%   45%
(53%)   (47%)
netherlands
32%   68%
(33%)   (67%)
belgium
67%   33%
(75%)   (25%)
france
44%   56%
(33%)   (67%)
switzerland
38%   62%
(34%)    66%)
sweden
56%   44%
(56%)   (44%)
south africa
75%   25%
(78%)   (22%)
people & culture
diversity
56
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
new zealand
australia
584
(473)
426 
(326)
42%      58%
(41%)         (59%)
total 
germany
35%   65%
(37%)   (63%)
poland
53%   47%
(53%)   (47%)
hq and ballerup
interacoustics
epos
denmark
30%   70%
(32%)   (68%)
34%   66%
(27%)   (73%)
28%   72%
(25%)   (75%)
38%   62%
(40%)   (60%)
63%   38%
(50%)   (50%)
back to content
gender distribution in management 
in 2020, we grew the share of female managers in  
demant by 1 percentage point from 41% in 2019 to  
42%. managers are defined as people managers who  
have one or more employees reporting to them. 
whereas a number of countries represent an even  
distribution of both female and male managers, such  
as poland, france and sweden, others occupy a vast  
majority of either male or female managers. the former  
is the case in denmark. as previously declared, we have 
initiated work with a new demant diversity and inclusion 
policy to ensure equal access to position and development 
in the demant group. in 2020, we further expanded our 
scope for tracking gender distribution by enrolling portugal 
and spain into our scope, covering 17 out of 30 countries. 
we aim for a further expansion in 2021.            
(2019 numbers in brackets).       
57
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
accidents 
in production of hearing health equipment people are not 
exposed to dangerous situations, hazardous materials 
or chemicals. consequently, this type of manufacturing 
is not considered unsafe or risky. yet, as part of ensuring 
a healthy and safe work environment, we take pride in 
upholding a considerably low accidents rate within our 
global operations. the figure below shows recordable 
incidents across our key production and distribution sites 
in mierzyn in poland, tijuana in mexico and somerset in 
the us, as well as our production site and headquarters in 
ballerup and smørum, denmark. recordable incidents are 
defined as incidents that result in days away from work 
or restricted work. we have not observed any systematic 
patterns to the incidents and most of them, such as  
stumbling while walking or cutting a finger, are accidents 
likely to occur in any situation.
 
harassment 
we are committed to providing a safe work environment 
free of any form of discrimination and harassment at work 
and refer to the demant group code of conduct for  
principles for workplace behaviour. please see more on  
the code of conduct on pages 100-103. all allegations of 
bullying, violence or sexual harassment will be taken seri-
ously and treated with respect and in confidence. no one 
will be victimised for making such a complaint and can do 
so either via their manager, their health and safety exec-
utive representative, hr or via our global whistleblower 
scheme. read more about this on pages 102-103.
at our danish headquarters, we have not received any 
formal allegation of harassment and bullying in 2020, but 
our recently performed workplace assessment shows, 
that though we in general have a very good result on the 
experienced working environment, a very limited number 
of our employees have experienced some incidents of 
harassment that potentially should have been reported 
and handled. we will therefore initiate further actions to 
support that incidents are reported and handled. 
work environment
health and safety
year
reportable accidents
hearing aids and diagnostics
2018
23
2019
13
2020
12
it is our duty to take good care of our employees by ensuring that our workplaces  
are operated in a safe and sound manner. demant honours freedom of association 
and the right to collective bargaining, encourages that people treat one another  
with respect and fairness and urges action if the opposite is experienced. 
58
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
59
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
our reality has been, and is still, highly influenced by  
coronavirus and working from home. in order to help 
employees maintain their work well-being, we engaged 
managers in how to handle management at a distance, 
especially by paying attention to people’s well-being. as 
part of this, we deployed a separate guide with different 
situations that managers and employees can find  
themselves in, as well as how these challenges can be  
handled to minimise negative impact on well-being.
stress management in denmark 
despite the tough situation during 2020, we have had 
fewer stress related incidents this year compared to 2019 
as shown in table below. this covers occurrences from  
minor, short-term situations to longer, monthly leaves  
of absence due to stress. considering the coronavirus  
crisis, the numbers of stress-related incidents has  
remained at a fair level. however, as always, we strive to 
reduce stress-related incidents further in the coming years. 
we have a clear process for handling situations when 
people experience stress, and our core purpose is unceas-
ingly to prevent stress as much as we possibly can. 
work environment
stress
in 2020, well-being in general, and stress management in particular, have been  
highly influenced by the fact that we had to rethink how we structure our work due  
to coronavirus. the lockdowns forced us to work from home, which meant a total  
reorganisation of people’s every day and work life. for some, this has been very  
challenging, for example due to loneliness and isolation from friends, family and  
colleagues, the urgent necessity to juggle between family needs and a home office, 
and the general fear of a global pandemic and the consequences hereof. 
60
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
50
40
30
20
10
0
2011
2010
2012
2016
2015
2014
2013
2018
2017
2019
60
2020
percentage of employees at danish sites affected by stress per year
5,00
4,00
3,00
2,00
1,00
0,00
2011
2010
2012
2016
2015
2014
2013
2018
2017
2019
6,00
2020
employees at danish sites affected by stress per year
61
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
work environment
our ambition for 2021 is to increase the effort towards 
those employees that return from sick leave. the goal is to 
make the experience of returning to work at demant even 
better than it is today. 
we also want to maintain managers’ and the employees’ 
engagement when it comes to stress prevention, and plan 
to offer stress awareness workshops and make more infor-
mation about stress and inspirational materials available 
to everyone. there is already a stress preventing toolbox 
in place that we continuously update and improve. lastly, 
we report on a monthly basis to management about stress 
cases and how they progress in order to be able to act if 
the development goes in the wrong direction.
stress management globally 
 
at demant, we strive to make stress management a 
natural and incorporated part of work life throughout our 
group. in denmark, we have clear processes in place for 
both handling and preventing stress. we work hard to 
diffuse this good practice towards more parts of the group, 
recognising that the perception of stress and approach 
to stress handling can differ significantly depending on 
country culture. this year, our bern site in switzerland took 
a strong initiative to guide managers and employees about 
how to structure working from home to ensure mental 
well-being, as well as introducing a new time manage-
ment tool to manage overtime. the polish sites initiated 
online stress management workshops for both managers 
and employees. 
62
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
63
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
engaged employees are more innovative, productive  
and positive and work to improve processes, structures 
and working habits. they help and inspire others to feel 
and act the same. while engaged people often breed 
engagement among fellow colleagues, it is demant 
managements’ responsibility to ensure a culture and work 
environment that continue to induce engaged employees. 
to experience an engaging workplace is a central part of 
well-being and performance, and as we mobilize engaged 
employees, our group can continue to ensure a content 
workforce, evolve and maintain a leading position globally.
employee engagement survey
we track engagement through an annual employee 
survey, pulse, that paints a picture of the current levels 
of engagement in the individual teams as well as in all of 
demant. whereas the survey is the base, the real work lies 
within each team in collaboration among managers and 
employees, who yearly discuss the results and agree on 
attention areas and actions for working with them con-
tinuously. conversations on the survey results are carried 
out locally in the respective teams and highly urged and 
supported from demant headquarters.    
people & culture
engagement & development
an engaged workforce is a central part of maintaining a sustainable business.  
at demant, employee engagement is measured yearly and assessed continuously to 
keep up with trends and attend to potential concerns globally and on a team level. 
our global engagement rate continues to grow steadily, and we still keep an eye  
out for opportunities for further improvement. 
engagement rate
2018: based on 11,000 employees
2019: based on 15,000 employees
2020: based on 16,000 employees
2020 
3.93
2019 
3.83
2018 
3.69
engaged employees
64
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
increased engagement
we generally experience that people are happy and proud 
to be part of our group and making a difference to others. 
as our engagement survey now reaches the whole group, 
we did not include any new entities in the pulse survey in 
2020. our main target for this year was to increase our 
ability to work with employee engagement in demant 
globally. the main focus has been to support the existing 
processes in the currently included entities. overall, we 
are pleased with the steady growing engagement rate in 
demant. according to gallup, our advisory and analytics 
company, this is a significant statistic increase from 2019. 
compared to gallup’s benchmark, our rate continues to  
be just below average. we will continue to seize opportu-
nities and improve our capability to work with employee 
engagement globally, whilst enrolling the newest addi-
tions to the continuously growing demant group. though 
more rapid increase would be great to see, we respect  
the speed with which it is possible to make changes to 
support engagement in a sustainable way in a global  
and complex business such as demant.
impact of coronavirus on engagement
the global pandemic proved a challenge for our employee 
engagement work as it quickly shifted the focus through-
out our entire business. coronavirus directly affected the 
process we run with pulse survey results, which is annu-
ally kicked-off in march, and consequently mainly had to 
be carried out virtually. despite the sudden challenges 
delaying the process, coming into the last quarter of 2020, 
all parts of our business have worked with engagement. 
moreover, we have experienced that knowledge of what 
engages and how we talk about engagement and general 
well-being has helped many of our teams cope with the 
difficult working conditions during the pandemic.
we are not yet completely aware of how coronavirus  
will affect the engagement level. we therefore await the  
results of the survey to settle on relevant iniatives aimed 
at increasing engagement levels.
65
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
people & culture
in demant, people development is an ongoing process 
between manager and employee, and our concept of an 
annual employee development dialogue supports this  
process with follow-ups and actions during the year to 
ensure further progress. 
our training academy offers internal training within 
leadership, project management, people development and 
professional skills. the training is conducted by internal 
trainers or selected external trainers. during 2020, our  
development activities were naturally impacted by coro-
navirus. as part of our contingency approach, we reduced 
the number of trainings as well as closed off external 
training. in 2020 we implemented a new global learning 
experience and knowledge sharing platform aimed at 
strengthening learning, knowledge sharing and net
working across the group. we piloted a new leadership 
development program anchored in our new leadership 
framework.
we further invested in a learning experience  
platform called fuse that enables us to learn, collaborate 
and knowledge share with communities in demant. we 
now have the entire workforce on fuse, giving us the  
ability to offer global learning and development solutions, 
which will allow us to roll out learning in a more agile way. 
competent leaders
to strengthen our focus on leadership development in 
2020, we developed a leadership framework. the frame-
work clarifies expectations of leaders and is a guiding  
star in how we asses and develop leaders individually  
on different leadership levels, across business areas and  
country sites. assessment and development tools, includ-
ing a new leadership training program, are under develop-
ment to support our use of the leadership framework.  
engagement & development
with people at our core, in our purpose and business model alike, it is essential to us 
to support employees in their development and growth, while ensuring that demant 
employees have the right roles and competencies to match our business needs and 
challenges. consequently, people and talent development are high on our agenda.
people development
66
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
67
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
society &  
local  
community 
68
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
    concert at ofelia beach, copenhagen 2019
69
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
society & local community 
area
2020 target
2020 actions
2021 targets
reinvesting in society
n/a
william demant foundation donated a 
total of dkk 111.9 million
n/a
supporting healthcare professionals
n/a
new oticon learning hub: supported  
971 hearing healthcare professionals  
with e-learning and online webinars
n/a
remotecare
rollout of remotecare service
speeded up rollout of remotecare in the 
us due to the pandemic
n/a
resourceful  
collaborations
n/a
screened and tested 52,342 people 
through our campaign for better hearing 
and raised us dollars 267,277
sustain pre-corona progress
as a company we are an important part of  
society. being a good neighbour in the  
communities in which we operate includes  
ensuring that we are aware of any risks we 
might pose to the local society and environment. 
as part of being a responsible and law-abiding 
business, we consider our impact to be main-
ly positive providing good jobs and engaging in 
local and charitable activities. it is imperative to 
us to give back to the society that raised us by 
boosting hearing health as well as supporting  
educational, social and cultural causes.  
70
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
area
2020 target
2020 actions
2021 targets
reinvesting in society
n/a
william demant foundation donated a 
total of dkk 111.9 million
n/a
supporting healthcare professionals
n/a
new oticon learning hub: supported  
971 hearing healthcare professionals  
with e-learning and online webinars
n/a
remotecare
rollout of remotecare service
speeded up rollout of remotecare in the 
us due to the pandemic
n/a
resourceful  
collaborations
n/a
screened and tested 52,342 people 
through our campaign for better hearing 
and raised us dollars 267,277
sustain pre-corona progress
71
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
society & local community 
resourceful collaborations
our hearing health is closely connected to our brain’s 
health and our overall well-being. recent research  
confirms that hearing loss becomes more prevalent as  
we age. the campaign for better hearing wants us to 
understand the links between hearing loss and depression, 
mental fatigue, reduced cognitive capacity and dementia.
since 2018 we have screened 517,975 people with a 
campaign for better hearing campaign code, raised near-
ly usd 2.1 million and helped 676 people by providing 985 
free hearing aids. during 2020, we screened and tested 
52,342 people, raised usd 267,277 and helped 67 people 
by providing 55 free hearing aids*.
when someone, who participates in the campaign, gets 
their hearing tested in one of the clinics, the clinic donates 
to campaign for better hearing. with the donated money, 
free hearing aids are handed out to people who need them 
but cannot afford them. the recipients are picked based 
on nominations from the clinics. the campaign operates 
in ten markets: australia, brazil, canada, france, ireland, 
the netherlands, spain, uk, us and belgium. greece will 
join in early 2021. our hearing care business encompass 
around 2,500 clinics in 18 countries. 
campaign for better hearing 
campaign for better hearing is a global initiative from our hearing care business 
area, our clinics, which puts hearing on the healthcare agenda. through the cam-
paign, we offer free hearing aids and provide crucial information and education 
about hearing healthcare and the consequences of untreated hearing loss.
*the remaining 12 users bought the hearing aids at their own expense
72
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
in the extraordinary situation in which we have found 
ourselves in 2020, many healthcare providers have been 
forced to serve their clients remotely. even in situations 
where face-to-face is the most appropriate way to provide 
care. our remotecare service, which we developed jointly 
with veterans affairs in the us, played a significant role in 
our care services during 2020, particularly during corona-
virus, as it gives access to healthcare even when people 
are hindered from seeing their hearing healthcare profes-
sionals.  
remotecare 2020
as planned, we spent this year further informing and  
training our customers in the clinics on how to use the  
service to help their patients. we also sped up the us  
rollout of remotecare due to the pandemic affecting 
healthcare systems and hearing care clinics. oticon 
remotecare, alongside other demant companies’ equip-
ment, is part of what makes it possible for healthcare 
professionals to care for their patients and provide nearly 
the same service as an in-clinic visit. additionally, during 
summer 2020, we e-trained 25 clinicians in remotecare 
via webinars in australia and new zealand and turned a 
planned roadshow into a virtual one reaching over 600 
participants.
new oticon learning hub
to show customers that we are here for support and train-
ing, even when our circumstances change, we launched 
a new oticon learning hub featuring webinars, e-learning 
and guides. from may to december 2020, 971 hearing 
healthcare professionals participated in webinars or  
undertook e-learning to attend to their clients during  
the challenges caused by the coronavirus.
back to content
remote help for healthcare  
professionals and users
with oticon remotecare, hearing care professionals can communicate with  
patients and make real-time adjustments to the patients’ hearing aids remotely  
using a camera, microphone, speaker and a stable internet connection.
world hearing day
world hearing day 2020 highlighted how timely and 
effective interventions can ensure that people with 
hearing loss are able to achieve their full potential. we 
followed in these footsteps by creating awareness 
around why testing your hearing as soon as possible 
could be the key to ensure that you achieve your full 
potential in life. 
on world hearing day 2020, the who drew at-
tention to the importance of early identification and 
intervention for hearing loss with the theme “hearing 
for life: don’t let hearing loss limit you.” we celebrated 
this day by spreading awareness on our social media 
platforms and in our clinics on how healthy hearing 
connects us to each other, our communities and the 
world. 
due to coronavirus, the world hearing day was 
celebrated differently in our clinics across the world. 
for instance, in denmark we held an open house ar-
rangement in our clinics, whereas ireland mainly held 
it online with radio campaign giveaways and press 
releases. 
73
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
society & local community 
william demant foundation
william demant foundation, the majority shareholder of 
demant, is a charitable business foundation whose main 
purpose is to give back to society in form of philanthropic 
donations and to secure and expand the commercial activ-
ities of the demant group. the foundation’s donations are 
based on the profit of demant and through the ownership 
structure we find there to be a strong connection between 
demant and william demant foundation. 
william demant foundation reinvests in society by donat-
ing to altruistic causes and by expanding its sustainable 
investments, particularly in the medtech industry. since 
1957, the foundation has donated more than dkk 1
billion, especially to research projects and knowedge-
sharing within the field of audiology. two experts, both 
specialists in audiology and related disciplines, work with 
the board to ensure necessary expertise and see to it that 
applications are reviewed in a professional manner.
we are proud to continue the legacy  
of william demant by reinvesting and 
giving back as an active part of society  
through contributions to ground-breaking  
research, education and impactful  
collaborations in the name of the  
hearing health cause.
lars nørby johansen, chairman,  
william demant foundation
reinvesting in society
demant channels its pure philanthropic activities through william demant foundation, 
based on a wish to separate grants and donations from the commercial activities  
of the brands within the group. we believe that this model allows us to allocate  
resources to people and society in the best possible way. 
74
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
2020
during 2020, william demant foundation contributed 
greatly to the hearing loss cause, as well as research, 
education, culture and care and donated a total of dkk 
111.9 million. the receiving projects include dkk 5.4 million 
for hearing and dementia research at ear science insti-
tute in australia, dkk 2.2 million to study how to improve 
behavioural hearing test practice in infants and funding 
of dkk 1.5 million for a case competition for young aspir-
ing researchers within natural sciences and technology. 
among others, enigma museum, engineer the future and 
tycho brahe planetarium received funds in 2020. 
ida institute
the foundation also allocates continuing funds for  
projects that span over multiple years. one of them is the 
ida institute, a non-profit organisation working to build a 
community that embraces person-centred care and em-
powers people to get the hearing care they need. together 
with clinicians, academics and people with hearing loss, 
the institute creates resources that help people develop 
knowledge, skills and confidence to better manage hearing 
loss. since 2007, william demant foundation has funded 
the institute with around dkk 12 million annually. today, 
the institute has a community of more than 18,000 hearing 
care professionals and partners with 28 leading organiza-
tions in hearing care, including patient associations, pro-
fessional organisations, and universities around the world 
to advance person-centred care in hearing. 
 
read more about the ida institute here:
www.idainstitute.com/ 
read more about william demant foundation and its  
activities here: www.williamdemantfonden.dk
total
111.9
dkk million
hearing health cause
61.1
dkk million
social and cultural projects
50.8
dkk million
75
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
society & local communities 
william demant foundation
the problem
every year, around 300,000 women die from complications 
in pregnancy or childbirth, 2.4 million babies die during the 
first 28 days of life and just as many are stillborn – that 
means every day, over 800 women and 13,000 babies lose 
their lives. around 94% of maternal deaths and the vast 
majority of newborn deaths occur in low- and middle-in-
come countries, particularly in sub-saharan africa and 
southeast asia.
the majority of these deaths are preventable through 
access to skilled and quality care during pregnancy and 
training health workers in ethiopia
with a donation of dkk 500,000, william demant foundation provided vital support 
for the danish non-profit, maternity foundation, to build the capacity of midwives and 
other health care workers in managing complications related to childbirth and preg-
nancy. with the use of technology – particularly the safe delivery app – and remote 
training, thousands of health care workers will be reached across ethiopia in 2021. 
the app is used worldwide and has reached more than 173,000 health workers. 
76
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
childbirth. a key element is building the capacity of health 
workers when managing childbirth emergencies. the safe 
delivery app does just that. through simple, animated in-
structional videos, drug lists and quizzes, the app teaches 
health workers how to handle the most common childbirth 
emergencies. all features and functions are designed for 
low-literacy, low-resource settings and function offline 
once installed.
a challenged country
since 2014, william demant foundation has supported 
the maternity foundation’s country program in ethiopia 
with great success. for instance, the safe delivery app 
has achieved national scale and thousands of health 
workers have been trained, enhancing their skills and 
knowledge.
but, with 401 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births and 
28 neonatal deaths per 1,000 live births, ethiopia is still 
among the highest rated countries for maternal and new-
born mortality in the world – far from reaching the  
sustainable development goal 3 of good health and 
well-being and targets 3.1 and 3.2. there continues to  
be a large need to reach and support health workers  
with efficient tools and training across the country.
fatal consequences of the coronavirus
the coronavirus has immense consequences worldwide, 
also for pregnant and labouring women. program director 
at maternity foundation, anne marie barrie, says:
“the coronavirus pandemic has put incredible pressure on 
the world’s midwives and other health professionals, not 
least the women and infants they care for every day. due 
to the pandemic and resulting reductions in the capacity 
of the health system, it is estimated that maternal and 
neonatal mortality will increase with up to an additional 
100,000 maternal deaths and 1.8 million deaths among 
children under five years old. digital technologies can play 
an important role in mitigating adverse effects on mater-
nal and newborn health and survival – even more during 
times with travel and assembly restrictions.”
with support from william demant foundation, maternity 
foundation will work to mitigate these adverse effects  
by supporting health care workers in ethiopia with person-
al protective equipment, such as face masks and hand 
sanitizer as well as remote digital trainings on infection 
prevention and training on how to care for pregnant or 
labouring women and newborns during the pandemic.
back to content
77
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment
& climate
78
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
79
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
area
2020 target
2020 actions
2021 targets
environmental footprint
expand reporting scope
project to expand reporting scope
initiated
further qualify our data on scope 1 and 2
prepare baseline on scope 3
set targets for emission reductions
energy consumption
reduce energy consumption
emissions decreased by 22% and
emissions per employee reduced by
20% compared to 2019 
further reduce energy consumption, set 
targets and begin transition to green 
energy
use of plastics
reduce, reuse and recycle 
project to reduce 11.5 tonnes plastic in 
hearing aid accessories production 
potential to perform same exercise in
other parts of production
packaging
reduce, reuse and recycle
more sustainable hearing aid packaging 
solution in oticon with up to 80% less 
packaging and ifus in selected markets
implement new packaging on all hearing 
aid brands
replace virgin paper and cardboard with 
fsc materials where possible
implement new sustainable dome
packaging on all brands
packaging
n/a
eliminated coloured or treated carton 
packaging for epos products and turned 
to printing the quick guide for the adapt 
range directly on the packaging to reduce 
paper
n/a
environmental  
management
continue improvements from iso 14001 
certification of diagnostics site in poland
cardboard boxes to ship equipment with 
100% recycled material
further continue improvements
environment & climate
in demant we strongly believe all large-scale 
companies can do their part to combat climate 
change. therefore, we are committed to  
reducing our climate impact and support the 
paris agreement. day-to-day, we are guided  
by our group code of conduct that holds our 
principles for good environmental practices.
80
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
area
2020 target
2020 actions
2021 targets
environmental footprint
expand reporting scope
project to expand reporting scope
initiated
further qualify our data on scope 1 and 2
prepare baseline on scope 3
set targets for emission reductions
energy consumption
reduce energy consumption
emissions decreased by 22% and
emissions per employee reduced by
20% compared to 2019 
further reduce energy consumption, set 
targets and begin transition to green 
energy
use of plastics
reduce, reuse and recycle 
project to reduce 11.5 tonnes plastic in 
hearing aid accessories production 
potential to perform same exercise in
other parts of production
packaging
reduce, reuse and recycle
more sustainable hearing aid packaging 
solution in oticon with up to 80% less 
packaging and ifus in selected markets
implement new packaging on all hearing 
aid brands
replace virgin paper and cardboard with 
fsc materials where possible
implement new sustainable dome
packaging on all brands
packaging
n/a
eliminated coloured or treated carton 
packaging for epos products and turned 
to printing the quick guide for the adapt 
range directly on the packaging to reduce 
paper
n/a
environmental  
management
continue improvements from iso 14001 
certification of diagnostics site in poland
cardboard boxes to ship equipment with 
100% recycled material
further continue improvements
back to content
81
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
climate impact
on a group level, we have been tracking our carbon emis-
sions under scope 1 and 2 for several years. to advance 
on our ambitions to reduce emissions, we launched a 
project in late 2020 to further qualify our data on scope 1 
and 2 (including estimates), expand our reporting to scope 
3, identify concrete actions for emission reductions across 
the group and set measurable targets - including setting 
emission reduction targets grounded in climate science 
through the science based targets initiative. the project 
was originally scheduled to commence in the first half of 
2020 but was delayed due to the shifting business prior-
ities caused by the coronavirus. initial assessments show 
that increasing our sourcing of green energy, looking into 
emissions from transport, further adopting a circular mind-
set addressing our packaging and waste and introducing 
more sustainable materials should be among the most 
material actions across the demant group. 
while we have not yet identified any material risk to our 
company from climate change, we cannot deny that  
our operations present a risk of negative impact on the  
climate. as a growth company, we must try to decouple 
our emissions from our business growth. our new project 
will support us in doing so.
climate change and risks
we want to leave the planet in good shape for future generations.
to do so, we must address our impact and limit our footprint.  
82
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
83
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
climate impact
energy consumption scope
as part of a larger effort to reduce our environmental 
footprint, we work to expand our greenhouse gas (ghg) 
emissions tracking and thus our reporting. please read 
more about this project on page 82. we want to ensure 
that we focus our efforts where they are most impactful 
and performing such an exercise successfully takes time. 
in 2020 we continued to track our corporate emissions us-
ing scope 1 (vehicles) and scope 2 (electricity and heating). 
we track consumption in offices and production facilities 
on sites that hold more than 35 employees. we also con-
tinued to track 80% of the clinics in our hearing care busi-
ness as well as our new communications business, epos, 
which is now part of our sustainability reporting scope. 
energy consumption 
scope 1 
5.019 tonnes co2e
group total
21.681 tonnes co2e 
2018*
1,98 tonnes
2019 
2,03 tonnes
2020
1,59 tonnes
group emissions per employee 
*adjusted number due to over-statement in 2018.
scope 2 
16.662 tonnes co2e
84
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
reduced emissions
compared to 2019, our 2020 emissions have been re-
duced by 22%. it is no surprise that our emissions of 2020 
are lower compared to the previous years, as the majority 
of the reduction is mainly due to coronavirus impact on our 
activities. more or less all sites in our tracking scope were 
affected by government restrictions on society and the 
consequences which led to us closing down many offices 
and clinics. field activities were also slowed down, caus-
ing significantly less travel locally and globally.
we also saw short periods with closed – or reduced -  
operations at our production sites, which is detectable in 
our emissions as well. at the end of 2020, several offices 
still ran at very low capacity, continuously encouraging 
people to work from home.  
please find a few examples and explanations of the
energy consumption in 2020 from a few relevant sites 
on the following page.
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
2018*
2019
2020
group total             scope 1               scope 2
emissions in tonnes co2e over the last three years
*adjusted number due to over-statement in 2018.
85
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
climate impact
at the danish headquarters, we experienced a somewhat 
lower consumption of electricity and use of company  
vehicles due to coronavirus, whilst the heating consump-
tion increased slightly because we expanded the premises 
with approximately 30% opening a new building at the 
headquarter site. environmental aspects and reduction of 
energy use of the new building have been a focus of ours 
and the site is lit inside and out with led lighting sources. 
the parking area offers an addition of six double charging 
post for electrical cars to the two double posts already 
there.
at demant japan, the operation for air conditioning 
changed from a cold-water heater with gas to an electric 
turbo chiller, saving energy consumption by 26% com-
pared to 2019.  
demant’s wholesale office in france saw a reduction of 
their electricity consumption by 33% due to impact from 
coronavirus restrictions on society, but also because of a 
new more efficient energy supplier. 
due to a new office change and increase in square meters, 
the electricity consumption increased by 47% in demant 
turkey, compared to last year.
emission factors
demant’s ghg emissions are calculated using emission 
factors and reported as carbon dioxide gases (co2e) as 
required by the ghg protocol. emission factors convert 
operational activity data (e.g., kilometres driven, kilowatt 
hours of purchased electricity) into a value indicating the 
ghg emissions generated by that specific activity. we 
use emission factors based on datasets that are globally 
utilised and recognised by ghg protocol standard: depart-
ment for environment, food and rural affairs (defra) and 
international energy agency (iea) from 2019.
estimating 
though the initial results of our effort to expand our  
emissions reporting are not fully evident in the reporting  
of 2020, we want to do what we can while we work.
consequently, we have estimated energy consumption in 
scope 2 for the clinics that are not yet part of our scope. 
the estimates are calculated based on the average 
electricity and heating consumption per square meter in 
the clinics currently in our scope. we estimate the remain-
ing 20% of the clinics to account for 1.459 tonnes co2e. 
total group emissions, including scope 2 estimates, is then 
23.115 tonnes co2e. when addressing the differences in 
energy consumption from 2018-2020 on the previous  
pages, we refer to our emissions without estimates, for  
the sake of comparability.
86
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
contributing to green energy production
in 2012, william demant foundation, through its investment 
company william demant invest (wdi), made an active 
choice to contribute to a cleaner world in the form of green 
electricity production. the company has invested in the  
bokum riffgrund 1 wind farm, and wdi’s share of the  
electricity produced amounts to 183,700,000 kwh annually. 
by comparison, we in the demant group uses less than  
20% of that amount or the equivalent of 33,700,000 kwh of 
electricity annually.
87
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
reduce, reuse and recycle
in 2018, demant’s hearing aids business embarked on 
a packaging journey to improve the unboxing experience 
and optimise the way in which hearing aids are packed. 
as a result, in 2020, we launched a greener and better 
packaging solution for all hearing aid brands. the im-
proved packaging setup introduces sustainable alterna-
tives and reduces excess material, bringing value to users, 
hearing healthcare professionals, the environment and the 
demant group.
the binaural challenge
demant works actively to reduce waste, substitute ma-
terials and opt for more sustainable solutions. as part of 
this, we have looked at how our hearing aids are packed. 
this is not only a concern to us but a priority for our cus-
tomers and users as well. based on a global study from 
2018/2019 that showed a great stakeholder interest in 
reducing excess packaging material, we optimised our 
hearing aid packaging solution in its design, production 
and distribution. the new solution also remedies a com-
mon challenge, namely the binaural challenge. in short, 
when a hearing care professional in a clinic needs two 
hearing aids for one user, which is around 80% of cases, 
the previous packaging setup offered two complete sets 
of hearing aids with appertaining boxes, accessories, user 
guides and carrying cases. the new solution reduces this 
excess packaging and introduces sustainable materials.
the packaging of our products is essen-
tial to how we introduce our products to 
the market. a greener and more current 
solution will not only minimise materi-
al waste and reduce our environmental 
footprint, but it also certainly improves 
the user experience.
heidi gade, packaging development manager
greener and smarter 
a new packaging concept for all hearing aid brands saw the light of day in 2020. the 
new solution improves the user experience, optimises the packing setup and reduces 
waste.
88
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
dare to rethink
not only is the new hearing aid packaging made with less 
components, but the paper and cardboard is also made 
from 70-100% recycled and fsc-certified materials. ac-
cording to heidi gade, the key to this great outcome was a 
process-rethink from start to finish: “it has been a com-
prehensive and cross-functional project, involving many 
different stakeholders, but the optimised packaging project 
is a great example of what can happen when you dare to 
rethink the process and tip your supply chain upside down. 
the result is a solution that brings value to our business, 
our customers and users, and, of course, the environment,” 
she says. 
up to 80% less material
in selected markets, we estimate to use around 80% less 
packaging and instructions for use (ifu) when solving the 
binaural challenge and reducing the need for repacking 
products and discarding packaging as a result hereof. the 
process and the saving will vary from market to market 
though.
in addition, the new packaging concept has been designed 
for manufacturing, meaning that it is created for mass 
production on high-technology machinery. due to fully 
automatic production with very few manual processes, 
the new packaging material can be produced within the 
eu and closer to the point of packing. this reduces the 
amount of transportation needed before the packaging 
material arrives at the warehouse.
“the new hearing aid packaging is not only more customer- 
and user-friendly and more cost efficient, but also easier 
to produce while less wasteful. however, the new setup 
does imply modified freight, as the boxes are nearly fully 
assembled when they are distributed, which we of course 
need to keep in mind in the bigger picture,” heidi gade 
explains. in 2020, oticon was the first brand of the four 
hearing aid brands in the demant group to introduce the 
new packaging, while the others followed. 
• paper and cardboard in boxes made from 70-100% 
recycled materials and boxes produced on 100% green 
energy
• fsc-certified materials
• improved workflow for healthcare professionals  
• fewer components equal  
less waste
• design for manufacturing
• reduced transportation 
psst.. we also introduced greener 
packaging in epos
2020 also entailed more sustainable packaging 
updates at the newest demant brand, epos, which 
stopped using coloured or treated carton packaging 
for products in both the enterprise and the gaming 
segment. finally, epos turned to printing the quick 
guide for their adapt range directly on the pack-
aging to reduce paper use as well as optimise the 
user-experience.
89
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
reduce, reuse and recycle
demant hearing aids come with a small filter in place to 
prevent earwax from getting into the hearing aids. as the 
small filter gathers the wax, it needs to be changed quite 
frequently. the fresh filters are stored in a plastic contain-
er, which internally is referred to as a turtle, because of 
its turtle-like shape. our hearing aids business produces 
around 13.5 million turtles each year and as demand for 
hearing aids grows, so does the need for more turtles. 
therefore, our toolshop has been on a mission: to find a 
way to optimise the turtle itself, the technology behind the 
moulding of it, or both. as a result, we welcome the turtles 
of tomorrow.
did not believe in the first forecast 
a previous forecast on the turtles predicted a material 
reduction of around 10,000 kg plastic a year. according to 
design for manufacturing and tool design specialist, klaus 
falk hansen, who works in demant’s toolshop and is one 
of the people behind the turtles of tomorrow, at first, the 
forecast seemed almost too good to be true.
yet, it was true. what we now know is that the optimi-
sation will cut off around 11.5 tonnes in a year. mainly 
because the part itself, as well as how it is produced, is 
optimised without compromising functionality and quality. 
in short, the new turtles make for a huge plastic reduction, 
a more effective production and eliminate use of chemicals 
due to the new moulding technology. 
design for manufacturing
klaus’ job is to make sure that the design ideas that come 
out of our r&d department are feasible and optimised for 
production. the new turtles are made in a moulding tool 
using a technology new to demant. one important aspect 
of the project is design for manufacturing and exploring 
whether elements of the turtle or production could be left 
out. klaus explains:
 “my job, essentially, is to make sure that when the mould-
ing tool is made, it will give us the most optimal results 
in relation to production of the turtles, both minding the 
visual aspects and resources and without compromising 
quality and functionality, of course. so, i sort of work in  
the gap between our developers and the production of  
the moulding tool itself, to ensure that it is feasible to  
produce,” he says.
enormous potential
when asked about the biggest challenge of the project, 
klaus falk hansen quickly refers to the complex organisa-
tion. however, the support he experiences across teams is 
a big help.
turtles of tomorrow
in 2019, we took the first steps towards a technical optimisation and major material 
reduction in parts of our hearing aid accessories production. as a result, in 2020  
we could confirm a forthcoming reduction of 11.5 tonnes of plastic a year in small 
containers for ear-wax filters for hearing aids. 
90
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
i expected it to be challenging to get this 
type of optimisation through with so 
many stakeholders and needs to be ac-
commodated. however, i have not expe-
rienced anything but faith and support 
from both management and colleagues, 
which also tells me that we are company 
that seeks the optimal and will spend the 
needed resources on getting there.
klaus falk hansen, tool design specialist
the project is an effort across many different departments 
and teams, such as logistics, marketing, sourcing, in-mar-
ket product support and of course our prototype and 
tooling department. it does not take klaus much time to 
think of the best part of the project: “the results. a materi-
al reduction of 11.5 tonnes plastic and a price per parts 
that is more than 50% lower than before. that is incredible 
to me and my experience tells me that 11.5 tonnes re-
duction is a significant amount, especially in our industry. 
also, of course, there is the fact that there is huge potential 
for transmitting this in other parts of our production makes 
me really excited to be part of this project,” he says. 
while the material reduction is evident, there is also a lot 
to gain for hearing aid users, as the new turtles are simply 
better with a sleeker look and feel. in mid-2020, the first 
turtles came out of their mould. the second ‘first out of 
tool’ test was run to make sure that the moulds worked as 
desired and to make final adjustments. according to plan, 
the turtles of tomorrow will reach hearing aid users in the 
beginning of 2021. 
based on the great results, we are looking into replicating 
this exercise on other hearing aids accessories.
91
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
reduce, reuse and recycle
environmental management system in 
our diagnostics business
in 2019, our diagnostics business implemented a new 
environmental management system according to iso 
14001:2015 at the production and storage site in mierzyn, 
poland. the overall goal is to minimise the environmental 
impact. in 2020, goals were centred around non-hazard-
ous waste. three goals were introduced:
• to minimise packaging materials which are used during  
production processes 
• to minimise printing paper in all departments of our  
organisation 
• to introduce proper segregation and sorting of waste
 
reviewing the 2020 goals shows a very positive tendency 
and that we have met our targets. we have reduced the 
number of packaging materials relative to the number  
of produced units used in our diagnostics production.  
we also reduced the number of print-outs by nearly 50%  
compared to 2018.
iso 14001:2015 in our  
communications business
in epos group, the main contractual suppliers used all 
hold relevant certifications including the iso/en 14001  
environmental certification. through making sure that 
suppliers are en14001 certified, we ensure our production 
fulfils environmental standards and compliance  
obligations. 
environmental management  
– iso 14001 
in 2019, diagnostics implemented a new environmental management system accord-
ing to iso 14001 at our production and storage site in mierzyn, poland. the overall 
goal is to minimise the environmental impact. 
92
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
saved 387,083 sheets of paper. that equals 33 trees
(1 tree equals 11,729 sheets of paper)
2018
667,667
2020
280,584
93
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
environment & climate
reduce, reuse and recycle
the green pipeline
we continue to work to deploy sustainability and a circular economy mindset in more 
parts of our business. here is a sample of what is in the green pipeline for 2021.
 
preliminary 
tests of a plastic 
grinder, purchased  
in 2019, show strong  
indication of opportunities 
to reuse some of our plastic 
waste in other parts  
of the production
our diagnos-
tics business will 
continue to work on  
a sustainable materials 
project, initiated in 2020,  
to reduce and replace 
plastic for packing  
and shipments
94
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
2021
back to content
 
based on the 
successful optimisa-
tion of turtles (storage for  
earwax filters for hearing  
instruments), we work  
to implement similar processes  
in production of other hear-
ing aids accessories, whilst 
also reusing our own 
plastic waste
as part of the 
improvements made to 
continue to meet the  
iso 14001:2015 standards,  
diagnostics’ production site 
 in mierzyn, poland, will begin 
to reuse bubble foil, replace 
plastic tape with paper 
tape and reduce extra 
label printing 
95
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business  
ethics &  
governance
96
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
97
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
area
2020 target
2020 results
2021 targets
business ethics
launch demant group code of conduct
launched the new demant group code
of conduct
further training of employees
business ethics
global whistleblower scheme and hotline
implemented global whistleblower 
scheme and hotline
further training of employees
tax policy
n/a
n/a
publish tax policy
data privacy
further training of employees
increased work with it security and data 
privacy when working from home
further training of employees
responsible  
procurement
n/a
322 of the 327 active direct suppliers 
signed the third patry compliance code
map potential to further integrate third 
party compliance code with direct 
suppliers
business ethics & governance
care for people’s wellbeing has always been  
at the core of our business. as part of this  
responsibility, we never compromise on our high 
standards for ethical behaviour and integrity.  
we require third parties to do the same and urge 
for concerns to be raised if behaviour or activities 
fail to comply with demant’s standards.
98
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
area
2020 target
2020 results
2021 targets
business ethics
launch demant group code of conduct
launched the new demant group code
of conduct
further training of employees
business ethics
global whistleblower scheme and hotline
implemented global whistleblower 
scheme and hotline
further training of employees
tax policy
n/a
n/a
publish tax policy
data privacy
further training of employees
increased work with it security and data 
privacy when working from home
further training of employees
responsible  
procurement
n/a
322 of the 327 active direct suppliers 
signed the third patry compliance code
map potential to further integrate third 
party compliance code with direct 
suppliers
back to content
99
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
global business ethics
we are committed to respecting everyone’s human rights 
and dignity, support international efforts to promote and 
protect human rights and adhere to principles under the 
demant group code of conduct. where local legislation 
does not naturally protect human and labour rights, we 
apply un global compact principles as well as principles 
from the universal declaration of human rights, ilo’s 
declaration of fundamental principles and rights at work, 
and the uk modern slavery act as well as our group code 
of conduct. we did not identify any human rights viola-
tions during 2020. we consider the most significant risks 
of adverse impact on human rights to exist in the certain 
parts of our supply chain.
tax policy  
in the demant group, we naturally comply with all tax 
laws and have not until recently seen the necessity to pub-
licly communicate our tax practices, policy and principles. 
with the rising demand for disclosure in this area, we will 
make available our tax policy in 2021. 
ethics first
in demant, the high standards we set are reflected in the way we act and how we 
connect with our third parties, including customers, partners and distributors. we 
want to act responsibly and are committed to doing business based on high ethical 
principles and in accordance with the law. 
100
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
read more about policies and regulations at  
www.demant.com/policies-and-regulations
anti-corruption
compliance with competition laws
fraud
data privacy
human rights
environment
workplace environment
business partner relations
export controls & sanctions
raise concern
whereas the code of conduct outlines the behaviour we 
expect of us all, we refer to our demant group third party 
compliance code when dealing with third parties.
together, our code of conduct, third party compliance 
code and whistleblower scheme represent the framework 
of demant’s global business ethics compliance program. 
this also includes policies and principles on an array of 
compliance matters, including anti-corruption, workplace 
environment (see more on pages 58-63) and data-privacy. 
our code of conduct is presented below.
business ethics compliance program
in 2020, we launched a new global business ethics compliance program with our  
demant group code of conduct alongside a whistleblower scheme, both of which 
reflect our commitment to this high level of business ethics. 
101
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
global business ethics 
training and communication
as part of demant’s global business ethics compliance 
program, it is imperative that all employees receive  
information on the policies and principles that apply to 
them. this year, we carried out global communication 
supporting the launch of the new group code of conduct 
and whistleblower scheme, alongside which we trained 
selected internal champions, country managers and all 
top managers. the training is carried out by our group 
compliance manager as well as local compliance champi-
ons and tailormade towards different parts of the group. 
we also zoomed in on training and communication of our 
new demant group anti-corruption policy. we aim to 
offer e-learning to all employees in the future as well as 
enhancing and maturing the global compliance program. 
during 2021, we will focus on documentation of imple-
mentation exercises, such as additional training.
whistleblower scheme
should any employee or business partner encounter seri-
ous, sensitive or improper actions that fail to comply with 
our demant group code of conduct, the demant group 
whistleblower scheme provides a secure and confidential 
platform to raise concerns. it consists of a whistleblower 
policy, whistleblower hotline and an investigation guide-
line. 
the whistleblower hotline is a global reporting system, 
through which concerns can be raised confidentially and 
anonymously in various languages via www.demant.com, 
internal channels and the demant business ethics app. 
it is operated by an external systems provider. we aim 
at reaching benchmark target number of reports for our 
industry. receiving reports means that people are not 
afraid to speak up if they question the behaviour of their 
colleagues or management and that trust is highly  
important to us.
we deploy an investigation guideline, prepared by group 
legal & compliance, as a practical guide for anyone  
responsible for conducting investigations. demant ensures 
that any report is treated carefully and genuinely, while 
guaranteeing protection from reprisals and retaliation for 
any whistleblower that has raised a serious concern in 
good faith.
anti-corruption 
we oppose use of corruption wherever we do business. it 
is part of our fundamental principles that we compete for 
business on fair terms and solely on the merits of its ser-
vices. corruption is a criminal offence in most jurisdictions 
and as a global company, demant adheres to all applica-
ble laws and regulations, including but not limited to the 
united nations convention against corruption, the foreign 
corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. 
102
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
we understand that failure to comply with anti-corruption 
laws could have serious adverse consequences and to 
ensure compliance, we adhere to our demant group  
anti-corruption policy.
our group policy includes basic rules on anti-corruption 
and sets the minimum standards for all employees. it is 
meant to provide guidance on behaviour in grey areas and 
for particularly exposed employees. we aim to ensure that 
all relevant targeted managers and their employees are 
familiar with this policy and have a solid understanding of 
the rules laid out.
as a global company, we also operate in countries where 
laws on anti-corruption are flawed, not followed or even 
not enforced. as a minimum, this policy shall always be 
applicable and govern the behaviour of employees  
regardless of local regulations and enforcement. we value 
our business integrity, and no budgetary commitments  
can justify a violation of this policy. our demant group  
anti-corruption policy is publicly available at  
www.demant.com. we consider the most significant risk 
of corruption to be in relation to trading with countries that 
are high on transparency international corruption index, 
which is typically in our export business to emerging 
markets.
data privacy
data privacy continues to be among our top compliance 
priorities. we are aware and highly respectful of the 
sensitive nature of the personal data that our customers, 
end-users, employees and other stakeholders trust us 
with. we are committed to protecting such personal data 
through high levels of security measures and responsi-
ble policies. during the global coronavirus pandemic, our 
focus for 2020 was shifted to ensure that the employees’ 
increased use of working from home was conducted in 
accordance with all necessary data privacy and it security 
measures. during the autumn, we have shifted our focus 
back to our original priorities and have picked up many of 
the initiatives we paused during the spring and summer. 
therefore for 2021, we still envision the primary focus 
to be on the general training of relevant employees and 
we will continue to adhere to policies and monitoring the 
international development in privacy regulations. we have 
decided to invest further resources in 2021 to strengthen 
our compliance efforts within this area even further.
103
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
global business ethics
the incident taught us that nothing can be produced, sold, 
customer adjusted or to some extend developed without  
it supporting the comprehensive documentation, sales,  
logistics management and knowledge-share infrastructure. 
as an example, in our hearing care business around the 
world, we saw how important our customer appointment 
systems were in ensuring a good customer experience 
when we had to shut the systems down during the inci-
dent. 
in 2020 we focused our efforts on ensuring business re-
covery capabilities and raise the business protection bar of 
our infrastructures, both externally and internally. we will 
continue and further enhance this work in 2021, focussing 
on clients, servers and our production facilities globally. 
we are aware that we cannot completely prevent such 
ransomware incidents, but we do our outmost to lower 
the security risks and ramp up our capabilities to recover 
faster. key factors in this work are automation, streamlin-
ing, monitoring, testing and training with a constant eye 
on rising regulatory requirements, as compliance is our 
license to operate.
cyber security
continuously improving our cyber security is a constant priority. a ransomware incident in 2019 further affirmed the 
importance of the issue and in the wake of the incident we launched the board of directors security committee and the 
armstrong security improvement program.
104
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
demant has a two-tier management structure consist-
ing of a board of directors and an executive board. the 
annual general meeting is the supreme authority in all 
company matters. the board of directors is responsible for 
the overall strategic management as well as the financial 
and managerial supervision of the company, evaluating 
the work and performance of the executive board. the 
board of directors’ duties and responsibilities are set out in 
its rules of procedure.
as a listed company, the group strives to maintain an 
accountable and efficient management structure and 
communicate in an open, transparent, impartial and timely 
manner with the stock market about the group’s strategy, 
objectives and risks.
demant’s board of directors and the executive board are 
in an ongoing dialogue on the identification, description 
and handling of the business risks to which the company 
may be exposed. any material risks are described in the 
annual plan and budget on an annual basis, which the 
board of directors approves. control mechanisms are in 
place with an objective to monitor, manage and mitigate 
any material risks associated with our business.
in the chapter on risk management activities in our annual 
report, we provide a review of the main elements of our in-
ternal control and risk management systems in connection 
with the financial reporting process.
a complete schematic presentation of the recommenda-
tions and our compliance, corporate governance 2020 
– statutory report on corporate governance, under section 
107 b of the danish financial statements act, is available 
on our website https://www.demant.com/media please 
go to corporate governance in media library.
in order to balance our many stakeholders’ interests, we have established a set of 
processes and relations by which we control and direct our company.
corporate governance
105
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
global business ethics
the code is part of our compliance and business ethics 
programme. it lists criteria governing aspects of human 
and labour rights, including slavery prevention, health 
and safety measures, environmental issues, as well as 
anti-corruption. it helps our suppliers adhere to social and 
environmental standards and contributing towards the 
protection of human rights. 
direct procurement 2020
in 2020, demant worked with a total of 327 active direct 
suppliers, out of which 322 suppliers have signed our  
demant group third party compliance code.   
the code is not re-signed each year. instead, we risk 
assess our direct suppliers based on their ability and 
willingness to comply with our demant group third party 
compliance code. the assessment groups suppliers into 
three categories. each category determines a sustainabil-
ity action that should be taken towards the supplier. the 
risk assessment is based on the supplier’s geographical 
presence, business sector and certified quality manage-
ment systems. 
should we identify a high risk, where an active direct sup-
plier has failed to meet our standards, our principles guide 
us to carry out a sustainability audit with an appertaining 
audit report to list areas of concern. 
actions in 2020
given the unique circumstances of this year, it is difficult 
to compare the 2020 activities with those of 2019. natu-
rally, the impact of coronavirus also impacted our ability 
to onboard and discover new potential suppliers. no new 
suppliers were added to demant’s supplier base and,  
consequently, no new sustainability audits were conducted 
in 2020. the only sustainability audit conducted in 2020 
was a reaudit of an existing and approved supplier.
today, demant’s indirect suppliers are not directly cov-
ered by our demant group third party compliance code. 
in 2020, we wanted to investigate how to deploy certain 
sustainability criteria within indirect procurement as well. 
however, due to the coronavirus, the reality was quite 
different than expected. therefore, we continue to work 
towards this as a 2022 target.
responsible procurement
as a global business that engages suppliers all over the world, we are attentive to  
how we deal and interact with our suppliers. we require that the majority of our direct 
suppliers sign and comply with our demant group third party compliance code.
demant group third party  
compliance code
page 1 of 11
third party compliance code, 888 04 018 rev. 05
106
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
 demant group third party compliance code
• further assurance to prevent and reduce modern slavery 
• defining a maximum amount of weekly working hours 
• provision of religious breaks 
• clearer and better-defined health and safety rules, including signs on machin-
ery, machine guarding, precautionary rules for pregnant women, clear instruc-
tions in languages understandable to all workers, physically demanding tasks 
needing to be identified and controlled 
• bonded labour and recruitment fees defined and prohibited 
• increased focus on environmental issues, impacts and proactive preventative 
measures 
• defined data privacy 
• defined fair business 
• encouragement of management systems and management processes to  
ensure compliance and follow-up
year
active direct suppliers
direct suppliers signed
2018
360
309
2019
381
313
2020
327
322
direct and indirect procurement
direct procurement involves purchasing of raw material and 
products directly applied to our own production.
indirect procurement refers to the goods and services required to 
operate the business.
107
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
material compliance and safety
we have implemented the use of a “restricted list”, which 
provides instructions and information on the utilisation 
and categorisation of substances and materials in our 
hearing aids business. the aim is to ensure that the 
group complies with relevant regulations related to
specific substances. in the restricted list, all relevant
substan ces that are banned or restricted are listed.
the restricted list is based on the follow-
ing regulations
• restriction of hazardous substances (rohs)
• registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction 
of chemicals (reach) directive
• toys directive
in relation to conflict minerals that are subject to the 
requirements of dodd-frank section 1502 or regulation 
(eu)2017/821, suppliers are requested to declare content. 
substances are categorised as below:  
on top of the mandatory requirements according to law, 
we have enforced extra specifications; for example, a 
ban on the use of all phthalates and natural rubber latex. 
working with the restricted list ensures full transparen-
cy on the use of hazardous substances, compliance with 
relevant directives and the opportunity to set a higher bar 
than the external required or recommended standards. 
we have introduced a risk-based approach where materi-
al compliance is not only secured by supplier declarations, 
but also via material analysis for high-risk materials.
class i:  
prohibited (not to be introduced in in any products put 
on the market by companies of demant) 
class iii
subjected to special deliberation (can be used,  
but under observation)
class ii 
restricted (for restricted use only)
class iv
under observation (can be used after thorough  
risk assessment)
restricted list
although the use of raw material is limited in our manufacturing compared to  
other industries, we still enforce a precautionary approach to environmental and 
health challenges connected with raw materials.
108
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
109
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
material compliance and safety
product compliance and safety within 
hearing aids
with people at our core, it is essential to us that we  
produce and provide safe products and services. as a 
quality-focused healthcare company, we adhere to eu and 
national regulations for product safety. thus, we follow 
the safety standard iec 60606 and conduct safety tests in 
accredited test houses following iso 17025, as assessed 
by our notifying body. in the end, it is the responsibility of 
the demant management that our products and services 
are safe when they reach the customers and users, and 
we take this on with great care.
we carry out risk assessments on all products. safety 
procedures are available for the products on the market 
in order to identify, correct and prevent any safety issues. 
our quality team attends to external databases to capture 
any potential safety reporting from other medtech com-
panies and we have internal procedures to ensure that 
we report any safety issues to national authorities. all the 
above is assessed through audits conducted by our noti-
fying body. today, all employees working within hearing 
aids are carefully introduced to the department of quality 
and to how we work with product safety. some employees 
are also enrolled in national committees, through which 
matters concerning medical safety are brought forward.
quality and safety of medical implants
within our hearing implants business we have a lifelong 
commitment on safety and quality for our patients. new 
products, implants, sound processors, instruments and 
software are developed by internal experts in close col-
laboration with external researchers and medical profes-
sionals. before launch, products are extensively tested in 
accredited test houses following international recognised 
standards, as well as in clinical settings. we carry out 
risk assessments on all products. safety and post-market 
surveillance procedures are in place to identify, correct and 
prevent any safety or quality issues. before our products 
are placed in the market, authorities worldwide review 
our product files ensuring we comply with internation-
al as well as local requirements and regulations. during 
2020, we focused on developing new innovative products, 
considering what we learned via the complaint system, 
return investigations of previous-generation products, as 
well as learnings from development and testing across the 
demant group. 
the oticon medical management team continuously 
review the quality policy and quality objectives ensuring 
we reach set targets on quality and safety. we measure 
product quality, complaints, vigilance and delivery quality, 
and we follow up on project goals, supplier monitoring, 
delivery performance, employee training, launch quality 
and continuous improvement to the quality management 
system to ensure efficiency and support a fast-growing 
organisation. through regular audits by our notified bod-
ies, we ensure maintained certification according to iso 
13485, mdsap, mdd and aimdd. during the forthcoming 
year, we will add certification to the eu medical device 
regulation (mdr).
quality management
guided by quality policies, the demant group pay special attention to the quality  
assurance of our products and services. delivering expected and required quality
is vital to our purpose.
110
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
quality management system in  
communications
the process quality function hold the overall responsibility 
for the qms (quality management system) in epos. it is 
based on the iso 9001:2015 standard, contains relevant 
documentation of requirements, guidelines and internal 
standards. it is available to all employees.
the process quality function holds updates and mainte-
nance in relation to epos’ iso 9001:2015 certification, 
including performance of internal and external audits  
with yearly surveillance or re-certification every third 
year. having joined demant, epos, including the offices 
in dongguan, china, and hong-kong was re-certified in 
2020. the certificate is deemed necessary for many  
larger customers and is valid for three years.   
our communications products fall under eu mandatory 
weee (waste electrical and electronic equipment) regu-
lations and we have global sub-contractors for customer 
returns under the warranty or returns for scrap. these are 
handled according to regulations applicable in the specific 
regions.
all epos products go through all legal safety requirements 
and local or regional certifications. we also passed the 
microsoft teams certification for many products in our en-
terprise solutions portfolio. for 2021, we are looking into 
establishing the tco (telecommunication certifications 
organization) certification, which can support us in taking 
further sustainable steps in our communications business.
 
. 
111
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
business ethics & governance
material compliance and safety
hearing aids
iso 10993 are the guiding standards in our work with bio-
logical safety evaluation of our hearing aids. we evaluate 
materials in skin contact in accordance with the standard 
and when necessary we perform animal testing according 
to iso 10993-10. it is also evaluated whether chemical ex-
traction and characterisation is suitable instead. external 
partners conduct the tests.
hearing implants
in our implants business, the key safety objective is to 
ensure that our devices are safe for skin contact and for 
long-term implantation in the body. we evaluate prod-
ucts’ contact safety according to iso 10993-1 and the 3r 
principles, which encourage that animal testing is kept at 
a minimum. this standard and these principles serve as 
a framework to plan a biological evaluation and promote 
methods yield equally relevant information to that ob-
tained from in vivo models as in vitro models and chemical, 
physical, morphological and topographical characterisa-
tion testing. thereby, we utilise assessment by chemical 
extraction and characterisation of materials when viable 
and, thanks to the new iso 10993-23 standard, the use in 
vitro testing to replace animal irritation will be privileged.
diagnostic equipment
in our diagnostics business area, we commit to reducing 
animal testing as much as we possibly can in accordance 
with iso 10993-1. we solely utilise animal testing when-
ever it is necessary in order to test the safety of our prod-
ucts. the test is conducted by authorised test laboratories.
biological evaluation - iso 10993
we use iso 10993 to evaluate the biological safety of our products and commit to  
reducing animal testing as much as we possibly can. the following describes how  
we operate with testing of this kind within our three main business activities:  
hearing aids, hearing implants and diagnostics. 
112
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
for our hearing health business, it is essential that health-
care professionals and users can trust the claims we 
make. the research spans from audiology and acoustics 
research for hearing aids and diagnostics to surgical, 
medical and biological research for hearing implants. as a 
deep understanding of the intimate links between hearing 
and the brain is fundamental to ensure very high-perfor-
mance standards of our hearing solutions, we are increas-
ingly conducting auditory neuroscience work to document 
performance improvements. for the hearing aid brands, 
the claims in our materials are created and substantiated 
at headquarters based on scientific standards and involv-
ing independent researchers.
marketing claims
within the demant group we work extensively with research to ensure that we hold 
evidence to substantiate all product and campaign claims stated in our marketing 
materials. 
113
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
looking ahead
2021
having spent 2020 framing our overall sustainability 
strategy for the group, 2021 will be the year where it must 
come to life. central to our future activities is improving 
our data collection in a vast number of areas, particularly 
for our greenhouse gas emissions, and setting measurable 
targets for our performance. when we publish our next 
sustainability report, we want to be able to show tangible 
progress in this area.
we will also focus much of our effort on implementing 
our new sustainability strategy, including working with all 
business areas and functions to translate the strategy into 
concrete action on a local level. as we are a diverse group, 
not all projects should be prioritised equally in all parts of 
the business. however, we all share the same overall  
sustainability priorities and ambitions for our positive  
contribution to society. 
114
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
115
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
in 2019, we conducted a materiality assessment – a rec-
ognised systematic process to identify the sustainability 
topics most relevant to our group to prioritise them de-
pending on how they impact demant and how important 
they are to key stakeholders.
a lot happens in a year, and since our materiality  
analysis in 2019, we have already seen certain areas,  
such as addressing our climate impact, becoming even 
more material. the matrix on the next page is the orig-
inal materiality matrix from 2019, adopted to external 
purposes. as any materiality analysis, the matrix shows 
what topics should be prioritized when the analysis was 
conducted. that means that all topics are important to the 
company but that the highest scoring topics were the ones 
deemed most relevant to upscale work on, while work 
with others was sufficient as is.
our new brand, epos, was not included in the materiality 
matrix at the time. most material areas for epos are:  
1. address climate impact, 2. reduce, reuse and recycle 
materials, 3. diversity & inclusion, 4. responsible procure-
ment & supply chain management.
appendixes
appendix 1: materiality matrix 2019 
116
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
• climate impact
• diversity and  
inclusion
• life-changing  
hearing health
• employee  
engagement &  
wellbeing
• talent development
• labour rights
• health and safety
• conflict minerals  
& metals 
• charitable donations
• product quality and 
compliance
• supply chain  
management
• ethical behaviour and 
compliance
• hearing health 
research
• animal testing 
• trainees and  
students
• product end-of-life 
• csr partnerships
• water  
and waste water
• dangerous  
substances
impact on demant
importance to stakeholders 
117
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
appendixes
our sustainability framework
sdg
sdg target
life-changing differences 
through hearing health
3.8 achieve universal health coverage (uhc), including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care  
services, and access to safe, effective, quality, and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all
9.5 enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, particularly  
developing countries, including by 2030 encouraging innovation and increasing the number of r&d workers per one million  
people and public and private r&d spending
people & culture
5.5 ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels  
of decision-making in political, economic, and public life
8.5 by 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people  
and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value
8.8 protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments of all workers, including migrant workers,  
particularly women migrants, and those in precarious employment.
society & local community
3.8 achieve universal health coverage (uhc), including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care  
services, and access to safe, effective, quality, and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all
4.5 by 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational  
training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples, and children in vulnerable situations
environment & climate
12.5 by 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse
13: take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
business ethics & governance
16.5 substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms
16.10 ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation  
and international agreements
appendix 2:  
our sustainability framework in 
relation to sdg targets
118
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
back to content
our sustainability framework
sdg
sdg target
life-changing differences 
through hearing health
3.8 achieve universal health coverage (uhc), including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care  
services, and access to safe, effective, quality, and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all
9.5 enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, particularly  
developing countries, including by 2030 encouraging innovation and increasing the number of r&d workers per one million  
people and public and private r&d spending
people & culture
5.5 ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels  
of decision-making in political, economic, and public life
8.5 by 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people  
and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value
8.8 protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments of all workers, including migrant workers,  
particularly women migrants, and those in precarious employment.
society & local community
3.8 achieve universal health coverage (uhc), including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care  
services, and access to safe, effective, quality, and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all
4.5 by 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational  
training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples, and children in vulnerable situations
environment & climate
12.5 by 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse
13: take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
business ethics & governance
16.5 substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms
16.10 ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation  
and international agreements
119
demant ∙ sustainability report 2020
