our responsible 
way forward
dsv panalpina 
corporate responsibility report 2020
gri has given formal confirmation 
that our report has undergone and 
successfully completed the materiality 
disclosures service in 2021
contents
community engagement
community engagement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33 
governance 
governance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
ensuring appropriate governance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
factbook
reporting approach  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
data summary   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
gri content index .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
introduction
letter from the ceo .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
dsv panalpina at a glance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
about dsv panalpina  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
revised strategy for an even more ambitious focus  .  .  .  .  .  7
focus house  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .9
environment
environment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
science-based targets .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
environmental management   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
sustainable logistics services  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
innovation .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
people
people  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18
employee care  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
good employer  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
growth through training  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23
responsible procurement
responsible procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
supplier engagement and conduct  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27
business ethics 
business ethics  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 29
guiding ethical behaviour  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
taxes and data privacy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
page 19
buying face masks 
while supporting  
a cause
page 14
reducing co2 emissions 
from our company car 
fleet
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
2
letter from the ceo
while managing the challenges of covid-19, we raised our ambitions  
for corporate responsibility in 2020 and made good progress on our initia-
tives. during the pandemic, our job did not change. we had a responsibility 
to keep supply chains flowing so people could continue to have the goods, 
medicines, and personal protective equipment they needed.
charting a respon-
sible way forward 
for transport and 
logistics
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
3
introduction
during the crisis, our top priority has been the health and safe-
ty of our people, whether they were working from home or 
moving goods in our warehouses and on the road . despite the 
circumstances, we managed to both complete the operational 
integration of panalpina extraordinarily fast, and to continue 
our activities within corporate responsibility with full force . we 
updated our strategy for the area and set new targets for both 
short- and long-term improvements .
reducing our carbon footprint
i have felt a growing urgency among our employees, in soci-
ety and in myself to raise our ambitions and to set a clearer 
direction for our sustainability efforts . in 2020, we reached 
an important milestone, as we set ambitious, science-based 
targets for how much and how quickly we need to reduce our 
carbon footprint . we chose to align our targets with the latest 
thinking from climate science, since it adds real meaning to 
reducing emissions . 
by 2030, we must reduce our carbon footprint by at least 
30% from our 2019 baseline year . in 2020, we already saw 
a significant decline in co2 emissions, mainly driven by lower 
shipping volumes following the outbreak of covid-19 . our 
overall energy efficiency was improved, though, and we will 
continue to reduce our impact, also when activity returns to 
pre-pandemic levels .
we intend to lead the way in our industry, and that means we 
must take responsibility for more than just ourselves . that is 
why our emission reduction targets include subcontracted 
transport, and why we have partnered with other large com-
panies to develop sustainable fuels . it is also why i represent 
the company in working with the danish government to find 
greener solutions for land transport .
a people’s business
i often say that ‘dsv panalpina is a people’s business,’ meaning 
that people drive the success of the company . it is therefore 
crucial that we continue to focus strongly on maintaining a 
healthy, safe, and fair workplace environment . in 2020, we 
strengthened our diversity and inclusion policy, promot-
ing practices that help us create an even more diverse and 
inclusive company . we unfortunately saw a rise in occupational 
accidents, but also fewer lost workdays due to occupational 
injury . on both topics, we will continue to improve as part of 
our new health and safety programme . 
we continue to ensure that everyone in the company under-
stands our code of conduct and receives the proper train-
ing to comply with it . managers and selected white-collar 
employees must pass an exam as part of our code of conduct 
e-learning course to verify that they have understood im-
portant subjects related to ethical behaviour, while all other 
employees get local awareness training . currently, we are also 
improving our global supplier management framework, helping 
us to better identify and assess suppliers – and ensure they 
live up to the same standards we have set for ourselves .
blueprint for a better world
we are proud to continue our commitment to the united 
nations global compact, an important global blueprint for a 
better world, to which we have been a proud signatory since 
2009 . the un’s sustainable development goals continue 
to play a big part in assessing where our activities have the 
greatest impacts . in 2020, we decided to align our corporate 
responsibility efforts with four additional sdgs which means 
that we now focus on a total of nine goals .
we went through a challenging 2020 without reducing focus 
on our corporate responsibility activities, and you will learn 
about many more of the year’s achievements in this report . 
thank you to the people of dsv panalpina and to our sup-
pliers for their extraordinary efforts during 2020 and to our 
customers for entrusting us with keeping their supply chains 
flowing .
jens bjørn andersen
ceo, dsv panalpina
i am very proud 
to say our team 
rose to the chal-
lenge and have 
shown extraor-
dinary integrity 
dealing with the 
unusual circum-
stances.
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
4
introduction
emea
gross profit: dkk 17,148 million
60.1% of total
ebit before special items: dkk 4,484 million
47.1% of total
apac
gross profit: dkk 5,455 million
19.1% of total
ebit before special items: dkk 2,859 million
30.0% of total
americas
gross profit: dkk 5,931 million
20.8% of total
ebit before special items: dkk 2,177 million
22.9% of total
dsv panalpina  
at a glance
over 80 
countries
5th largest 
freight forwarder
dkk 116 billion
in annual revenue
1,300 offices &  
logistics facilities
56,000+ 
employees
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
5
introduction
transport
subcontracted
from shipper
our key resources
people — it systems — industry know-how — standardised global workflows — carrier relations — global network with local presence
freight forwarding services 
logistics and distribution
shipment booking — pick-up
warehouse — documentation & customs  
clearance — cargo consolidation 
purchase order management — cross-dock terminal  
insurance 
warehousing — picking/packing — cross-dock terminal 
deconsolidation — labelling, configuration, testing  
distribution — documentation & customs clearance
e-commerce fulfilment — carbon emission reports
supply chain innovation
to consignee 
about dsv 
panalpina
among the world’s largest
we have grown steadily over the years – not least through several large 
acquisitions . we operate with own locations in more than 80 countries 
and are represented by partners and agents in countries where we do not 
have our own locations . our global market share is estimated to 3-4%, 
making us one of the top five global freight forwarders in the world . the 
global freight forwarding market is considered to be quite fragmented, 
with the top 20 players having approximately 30-40% market share . 
business model and strategy
we run an asset-light business model which means that while we plan and 
coordinate transport from shipper to consignee on behalf of our cus-
dsv panalpina is a global freight forwarder 
offering transportation of goods as well as 
a variety of value-added services. 
these include lead logistics, e-commerce solutions, purchase order 
management, cargo consolidation, customs clearance, cargo insurance, 
warehousing, distribution, and other related services . 
the company was founded in denmark in 1976 and has since then 
evolved to become one of the world’s largest freight forwarders, offering 
services throughout our three divisions – air & sea, road and solutions .
 
dsv air & sea offers alternative routings and flexible schedules to suit 
even the most demanding logistical requirements to and from all parts 
of the world . we handle 2,200,000 teus of sea freight and 1,300,000 
metric tonnes of air freight every year .
dsv road is one of the leading road freight operators in europe with dis-
tribution networks in north america and africa . annually, we handle more 
than 30 million shipments and every day more than 20,000 trucks are 
ready to carry goods in a fast, efficient, and flexible manner .
at dsv solutions, we partner with our customers to design and deliv-
er logistics solutions, adding value by increasing operational and cost 
efficiency . we operate hundreds of logistics facilities comprising a total of 
6,000,000 m2 .
tomers, the actual physical transport is outsourced to suppliers, including 
airlines, shipping lines, rail operators, couriers, and haulier companies . our 
asset-light approach implies that the majority of our terminals, warehouses 
and operational equipment are leased on short-to medium-term contracts 
with the average duration closely monitored to accommodate capacity 
requirements . 
our vision is to continue being a leading global freight forwarder targeting 
extensive growth . driving the organisation towards this ambition are four 
strategic focus areas – customers, growth, people, and operational ex-
cellence . being a responsible business partner is tied into all four areas and 
fundamental to achieving our goals, and we constantly work to strengthen 
that foundation through our corporate responsibility initiatives .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
6
introduction
revised strategy for an 
even more ambitious focus
we have updated our corporate  
responsibility strategy to address  
the changing world we live in. it is 
our belief that investing in corporate 
responsibility yields stronger stake-
holder relationships and ultimately 
better business results.
key stakeholders
the foundation for reassessing our material topics and for 
our corporate responsibility strategy is our stakeholders . on a 
yearly basis we review our important stakeholders and iden-
tify potential new ones . this review provides us with relevant 
insights into our stakeholder relationships . 
our ability to make decisions in the best interest of our stake-
holders is largely dependent on the quality of information 
flowing between us and them . we therefore engage with our 
stakeholders openly and transparently in a variety of ways to 
create mutual value .
customer relationships are crucial for us, and while much of 
the day-to-day contact is handled by our freight forwarders,
we engage with customers on many levels throughout the 
company . key account managers, for example, coordinate 
activities around large customer relationships, conducting 
regular business reviews with them to ensure that all topics 
of interest to customers are addressed . corporate responsi-
bility is increasingly becoming a part of the tender process, 
requiring us to outline our approach in order to be considered 
a potential supplier . 
our asset-light business model requires strong relationships 
with suppliers to provide services reliably, efficiently, and 
responsibly, while existing and potential employees will always 
be key stakeholders in our line of business . in the chapters 
entitled responsible procurement and people, we elaborate 
on these key stakeholder relationships .
all our key stakeholder relationships, which also include inves-
tors, analysts, rating agencies and authorities, were taken into 
consideration when performing our materiality assessment .
our key  
stakeholders:
customers
suppliers
current and potential 
employees
investors
analyst and  
rating agencies
authorities
the road towards an 
updated strategy
6
presented the  
strategy to the  
board of directors  
for final approval
4
revisited our  
focus areas based 
on our materiality 
assessment
3
reassessed and 
confirmed our  
material topics
2
redefined our 
governance 
structure
5
set targets for  
each area and the 
activities planned  
to reach them
1
performed  
yearly stakeholder 
review
gri: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
7
introduction
materiality assessment
in 2020, we carried out an assessment of which corporate responsibility 
topics are most important to dsv panalpina, ensuring that we continue 
to have the right focus . during the process, we assessed topics according 
to how influential they are in our ability to achieve our strategy, to remain 
commercially sustainable, and socially and environmentally responsible .
we have given particular consideration to issues that influence the long-
term needs of our stakeholders and to factors that impact the countries 
and regions in which we operate .
sustainable development goals
we have been a signatory to the united nations global compact since 
2009, and we have pledged to adhere to the compact’s ten principles .  
at the same time, we have been supporting the un’s sustainable devel-
opment goals since 2015, focusing on the ones that we affect the most 
through our business, both positively and negatively . 
after reassessing our material topics, we have reviewed their alignment 
with the sustainable development goals . we have subsequently added 
four new sdgs to the five that we already focused on and will continue 
to work systematically with nine sdgs .
you can find our material topics, our focus areas, and the sdgs that we 
support in our focus house on page 9 . this report describes our progress 
and ambitions within each area .
the 17 sustainable  
development goals  
and the nine goals  
that we support.
gri: 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
8
introduction
focus house
this overview contains our  
overall intent for corporate responsibility, our  
five focus areas, our material topics, and related  
commitments.
we are committed   
to a responsible and sustainable way  
forward for transport and logistics
business ethics
we do business with integrity, 
respecting different cultures and the 
dignity and rights of individuals in all 
countries.
overarching
statement
our corporate
responsibility
focus areas
material topics
our commitment
– conflict of interest
– anti-competitive behaviour
– anti-corruption
– data privacy
– taxes
– compliance
– employee engagement
– health & safety
– diversity
– labour rights
– human rights
– community engagement
–  supplier engagement and 
conduct
– emissions
– energy
– waste management
– product and service innovation
people  
we provide safe and healthy work-
places, and we strive to attract, 
motivate and retain talented people 
by offering responsibility, empower-
ment, and growth opportunities.
community engagement
we engage with and support com-
munities in which we operate, and we 
use our expertise to support people 
in need.
responsible procurement
we ensure our suppliers meet our 
high standards, service quality and 
price requirements and demonstrate 
an understanding of our corporate 
responsibility objectives.
environment
we have a responsibility to drive   
our own operations and the industry 
towards minimising the environmen-
tal impact of transport and logistics 
services.
gri: 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
9
introduction
environment
we have a responsibility to drive our own operations and  
the industry towards minimising the environmental impact  
of transport and logistics services
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
10
environment
2020
2021
moving cargo and keeping supply chains flowing throughout the world has 
an impact on the environment . whether the impact, including greenhouse 
gas emissions, are from our own operations or due to the activities of our 
subcontractors, we have a responsibility for measuring, disclosing, and 
reducing the impact where possible .
our business model is asset light, which means that the actual transport of 
the goods is performed by 3rd party subcontractors besides a small frac-
tion that we transport ourselves . therefore, we share responsibility for mi-
nimising the negative impact of transport with our suppliers and customers, 
and only by working closely with these stakeholders to implement smarter 
solutions and to choose greener options when economically feasible can we 
achieve our targets .
watch our ceo present 
our science-based targets
achievements 2020
approved 
science-
based targets 
for lowering 
co2 emissions 
by 2030   
partnered with 
leading danish 
companies to  
develop 
sustainable 
fuel for road, 
maritime and air 
transport
initiated the 
green pro-
curement 
project and 
developed 
new customer 
offerings
in 2020, our sustainability board approved ambitious science-based 
targets for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, and we have started 
several new initiatives to achieve these targets . our goal is to continually 
improve our environmental performance, use resources responsibly, and 
collaborate with key stakeholders to find new ways of moving goods with 
less environmental impact . 
targets 2021
enhanced our 
green buildings 
framework to  
reduce emis-
sions from our  
own buildings
30% reduction 
of scope 3 
greenhouse gas 
emissions by 
2030
sort waste 
for recycling 
of paper, 
cardboard, 
and plastic 
on >80% of 
building floor 
area
implemented 
ecotransit, 
a leading co² 
reporting tool  
for customers  
– to launch  
in 2021
100% compli-
ance to revised 
car emission 
policy
40% reduction 
of scope 1 and 
2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 
2030
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
11
environment
40%
30%
science-based  
targets 
our 2030 science-
based targets
scopes of emissions 
the sbti framework uses the reporting standards  
established by the greenhouse gas protocol which  
divides greenhouse gas emissions into scopes:
scope 1 
direct emissions, 
typically from the burning
of fuels, from owned or 
controlled sources, including 
our facilities and 
company vehicles.
scope 2 
indirect emissions 
from the generation 
of purchased electricity, 
steam, heat 
or cooling.
we have chosen to work with  
the science based targets  
initiative (sbti) to reduce  
our carbon footprint.
scope 1 and 2
reduction of greenhouse  
gas emissions
scope 3
reduction of greenhouse  
gas emissions
scope 3 
indirect emissions 
(not included in scope 2) 
that occur in our value chain, 
including all our subcontracted 
transport.
the sbti is an internationally recognised framework for 
climate change goals and a collaboration between the carbon 
disclosure project (cdp), the united nations global compact, 
world resources institute (wri) and the world wide fund for 
nature (wwf) .
science-based targets provide a clearly defined pathway 
for companies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, consis-
tent with the research-community’s latest understanding of 
climate change . targets are considered ‘science-based’ if they 
support the goals of the paris agreement – limiting global 
warming to well-below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and 
pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1 .5°c .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
12
environment
3% 
reduction  
in 2020
40%
40%
30%
8% 
reduction  
in 2020
2030 target
2030 target
2019 baseline
2019 baseline
2019 baseline
21% 
reduction  
in 2020
2030 target
scope 1 status
scope 2 status
scope 3 status
calculating our baseline
our science-based targets aim to reduce our co2 emissions by 2030 
from a 2019 baseline year . to estimate the baseline, we took dsv’s 
total co2 emissions in 2019 and added them to the co2 emissions from 
panalpina’s operations, the company we acquired during 2019 . in addition, 
we adjusted our methodology (see page 38) before reaching our 2019 
baseline of 16 million tonnes of co2 emissions .
making progress in 2020
detailed in our data summary on page 40 of the report, our total co2 
emissions in 2020 increased compared to previous years . the increase 
is due to the full year inclusion of panalpina’s emissions compared to the 
reported figures in 2019, which only had four months included .
however, if we compare the two full years of 2019 and 2020, we have 
made substantial progress towards our science-based targets in 2020 
with a reduction on all three scopes . the year was significantly impacted 
by the covid-19 restrictions which reduced shipping volumes in many 
industries, resulting in lower co2 emissions from our subcontracted 
transport . other consequences of covid-19 restrictions, including less 
business travel, also affected our co2 emissions . 
despite of covid-19 restrictions, we also saw reductions in co2 emis-
sions resulting from energy efficiency improvements in our own facilities 
and through our partnerships with subcontractors to encourage the use 
of more fuel and energy efficient vehicles .
in 2021, we expect increased co2 emissions as shipping volumes re-
bound to pre-pandemic levels . we will remain focused on continuing our 
efforts to make energy efficiency improvements through the initiatives 
described in this chapter – and thereby working towards meeting our 
2030 targets .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
13
environment
by 2028, our goal is to have a car fleet powered 
solely by electricity and/or renewable fuels.  
in 2021 no car must emit more than  
160 grams of co2/km on average. 
by 2023 the limit will be  
150 grams of co2/km. 
2021
reducing our fleet emissions 
2023
2028
a key aspect of our greenhouse gas reduction efforts (scope 1 and 2) is 
to improve our internal energy efficiency .
greener buildings 
we adhere to some of the strictest national and international standards 
when constructing new buildings, including the breeam, leed and dgnb 
standards, which assess the environmental, social, and economic sus-
tainability performance of buildings . new buildings are constructed with 
a long lifespan of minimum 50 years, and we aim for 85% of the building 
materials to be reusable .
several other activities help us increase energy efficiency and lower emis-
sions, including low energy lighting, energy-friendly roofing, smart use 
of electricity, and efficient water consumption facilities, which have led 
to a reduction in our water consumption globally . in 2020, we started a 
new initiative that requires all new buildings to also use renewable energy 
– either generated on-site or purchased . the optimisation measures we 
make use of in our building projects can vary from project to project and 
from country to country .
while optimising our approach to buildings, we ensure that the economic 
performance of our building activities go hand in hand with the environ-
mental performance . we therefore require that the cost of attributes, 
such as energy efficiency or renewable energy, be returned within 7 years .
waste management
with more than 1,300 offices and logistics facilities around the world, 
from small offices to large warehouses of more than 100,000 m2, waste 
environmental 
management 
management is an important part of our commitment to good environ-
mental management .
besides ensuring processes for recycling and sorting wherever possible, we 
are always seeking to identify opportunities for improvement . in total, 74% of 
our building square metres have recycling programmes for paper, cardboard, 
and plastic, and in 2021, we are launching a recycling project to increase our 
global efforts .
local entities driving the global strategy
local entities in our divisions ensure that our environmental management 
initiatives are implemented, and that ownership is taken to drive them 
forward . for example, in 2020 a sustainability programme was initiated 
in dsv solutions, our division related to warehousing, fulfilment, contract 
logistics and more .
led by local ambassadors, the programme has two tracks: 1) interacting 
with our customers and suppliers to implement green solutions, and 2) 
optimising technical solutions in our own offices and warehouses, includ-
ing automatic control of heating, cooling and ventilation . the programme 
also introduces more sustainable equipment in warehouses such as ener-
gy-efficient forklifts and alternative environmentally packaging solutions, 
while more trees will be planted in areas outside of our warehouses .
company car fleet
our company car fleet represents another opportunity to make progress 
on our environmental goals and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
(scope 1) . in 2020, we accelerated the most crucial factor in reducing 
our fleet emissions, phasing electric vehicles into our fleet . in 2021, we 
are introducing a new requirement that reduces the maximum allowed 
level of co2 emissions from fossil-fuel powered cars in our fleet to 160 
grams of co2/km on average . by 2023 the limit will be lowered further 
to 150 grams of co2/km . 
as electric vehicle technology is rapidly developing, we will perform a yearly 
assessment of the maturity level of available ev technologies and deter-
mine the type of green cars that we will introduce . by 2028, our goal is to 
have a car fleet powered solely by electricity and/or renewable fuels . 
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
14
environment
many of our customers are seeking  
lower-carbon logistics services. 
because of our asset-light business 
model, and the fact that much of 
the greenhouse gas impact of our 
services is due to the actions of our 
subcontractors, their engagement  
is essential. 
we have started several initiatives to lower the greenhouse 
gas emissions from our subcontracted transports (scope 3) . 
green service offerings
to improve our range of sustainable offerings, we are currently 
developing a set of green transport and logistics solutions, 
supported by several different aspects of our services . the 
package of services has three pillars: 
1 . report: provide accurate and timely co2 emission reports 
through ecotransit, our customer co2 reporting tool which 
will replace our existing solution in 2021 .
2 . reduce: implement the right mix of technologies and 
services to reduce co2 emissions . options include alternative 
fuels, carbon offsetting, and supply chain optimisation projects 
that explore possibilities of mode shift, optimal loading factors, 
routing, carrier selection, and innovation .
3 . collaborate: explore collaboration projects with carriers on 
new technology and fuel providers .
this important offering requires all components of the value 
chain to work together, including: 
• procurement and product teams: to build awareness and 
capability to understand the environmental performance of 
our carriers . 
• information technology: in order to be able to model and 
calculate the benefit of these improvements . 
• commercial teams and customers: to implement and adopt 
the new procurement process . 
an important component of the programme is focused on 
alternative fuels . we are committed to helping our customers 
find the right mix of fuel solutions, such as second-generation 
biofuels, lng, hydrogen, and others . 
green collaboration in action
in one example of green collaboration in action, we have 
partnered with a major customer to provide a range of 
transport and logistics services and to significantly reduce the 
customer’s co2 impact at the same time . together, we have 
established a 2030 green logistics roadmap and prioritised 
initiatives based on where the most significant reductions are 
possible . 
this collaboration has four workstreams: 
• optimise transport within current network setup through 
mode selection, consolidation, port rationalism, and packaging .  
• improve logistics emission standards through carrier selec-
tion, vehicle specification and fuel type . 
• optimise logistics network segmentation and performance 
alignment . 
• challenge remaining supply chain elements through sourcing 
and manufacturing decisions .  
three  
sustainability 
pillars:
1 . report
2 . reduce
3 . collaborate
sustainable  
logistics services
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
15
environment
the world of logistics is 
changing, and today there 
are higher demands from 
businesses and consumers 
to the environmental per-
formance of products and 
services they purchase. we 
embrace this change by in-
novating and improving our 
services and operations.
innovation
the thinking behind the 
renewable hydrogen 
project is the concept 
of power-to-x, a term 
covering the transfor-
mation of power into 
new materials or fuels. 
we see great potential in 
power-to-x technology 
and support exploring 
its promising possibili-
ties. 
click to watch video
learn how renewable 
hydrogen is developed
collaboration with  
cardiff university 
we have a long-standing part-
nership with cardiff university’s 
parc institute in the uk. the 
partnership aims to identify 
new ideas and produce top level 
research in the fields of logis-
tics, manufacturing and inven-
tory management.
the collaboration provides us 
with access to top-level logis-
tics experts, while we provide 
real-world data for projects. 
published research articles from 
our colleagues linked to cardiff 
university in clude ‘value  
creation through green vehicle 
routing’ and ‘journey to the  
circular supply chain.’ to be 
published in the first quarter  
of 2021 is a white paper  
about the future impact of 
covid-19 on supply chains.
recently, the institute and dsv 
also collaborated to produce 
3d-printed visors for nhs staff 
in the uk in the fight against 
covid-19.
learn more at: 
www.cardiff.ac.uk/parc
innovation takes place on several levels at dsv panalpina with 
developments on local, divisional, and global levels . central to 
our efforts is the dsv innovation hub which is the home of 
several of our in-house research and development pro-
grammes . 
renewable hydrogen
in 2020, we joined forces with other leading danish companies 
on an ambitious sustainable fuel project, aiming to convert 
wind energy into sustainable hydrogen for road, maritime and 
air transport . a key aspect of the project is to make sustain-
able fuels competitive with fossil fuels by scaling production to 
industrial size .
the project entails setting up an electrolysis facility south of 
copenhagen with a capacity of 1 .3 gw by 2030 . using power 
from offshore wind, the plant will supply more than 250,000 
tonnes of hydrogen-based fuels annually for busses, trucks, 
maritime vessels, and airplanes .
our role in the partnership is to assess the suitability of 
hydrogen fuel cell trucks for commercial use and to test it in 
our own supply chain . through our collaboration with cardiff 
university, we also contribute with analyses of, for example, 
traffic patterns, helping to ensure that the proposed plans 
will be truly viable and competitive for our customers and 
suppliers . 
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
16
environment
people
we provide safe and healthy workplaces, and we 
strive to attract, motivate and retain talented 
people by offering responsibility, empowerment 
and growth opportunities
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
17
people
2020
2021
1
2
people drive the success of our company, so the more we focus on 
providing healthy and safe workplaces – as well as strong development 
opportunities – the greater is our chance of achieving our ambitions . we 
have defined two overall topics that relate directly to our employees: 
employee care and good employer .
employee care covers activities related to health and safety, focusing on 
minimising risks by creating good and safe working environments . we 
safeguard our employees throughout the company by assessing risks 
continuously and minimising them through our processes and policies for 
safe conduct . many employees had their daily work lives disrupted during 
2020, as covid-19 spread and restrictions were implemented all over 
the world to contain it . throughout the crisis, our priority has been the 
health and safety of our people, who have worked hard to keep global 
supply chains flowing . 
good employer means that we take steps to ensure the continuous 
development of our employees and attract the best and brightest talent 
to our team . we want our employees to be successful in their jobs and to 
grow their careers . to that end, our local and global hr departments have 
several initiatives to attract, develop, and retain talented people .
in 2020, we implemented a new health and safety programme and 
moved forward on several other related initiatives . after finalising the 
integration of panalpina, we have reinstated targets for lost workdays and 
occupational accidents and included a target for eliminating fatalities . 
initiated a 
covid-19 
support and 
communication 
programme 
implemented  
a new health  
& safety  
programme
updated and 
launched our 
diversity and 
inclusion 
policy
rolled out our 
online global 
training  
platform
number of lost 
workdays 
must not exceed 
100 per million 
working hours
number of 
occupational 
accidents must 
not exceed 
5 per million 
working hours
number of 
fatalities must 
not exceed 0 
during the year
achievements 2020
targets 2021
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
18
people
employee care 
buying face masks while  
supporting breast cancer  
research
many of our local units were highly resourceful during 
the covid-19 crisis. in april 2020, an employee at 
a local dsv unit in belgium was looking for personal 
protective equipment, including face masks. this early 
in the crisis, there was a scarcity of face masks, but a 
message on social media caught their attention.
it said: “buy face masks and support think pink.” 
protecting colleagues and contributing financially to 
think pink, an organisation dedicated to strengthening 
breast cancer research, sounded perfect to the dsv 
employee. the first order of masks was made from 
belgium at the beginning of may – later an order was 
made from the netherlands, then luxembourg, den-
mark, germany and austria. 
tens of thousands of dsv branded face masks ended 
up being ordered through think pink, helping to pro-
tect employees against infection while also supporting 
an important cause.
case
we must work to protect the well-being 
of our most valuable resource, our people. 
while 2020 was overshadowed by the 
spread of covid-19, we continued devel-
oping and implementing a stronger global 
health and safety programme.
our response to covid-19
when the covid-19 pandemic spread across the world in early 2020, 
we quickly established an executive crisis committee, chaired by our 
group ceo, to oversee all key activities related to the crisis . the commit-
tee appointed a group crisis management team to collect and redistrib-
ute operational information from all entities on behalf of the committee . 
as the situation has differed from country to country, the efforts of local 
management have been equally crucial .
a strong flow of communication to both internal and external stakehold-
ers has been essential to handling the crisis . this includes:
• travelling and workplace guidelines
• operational information
• business continuity plans
• it guidelines, work tools guidelines
• guidance on leadership in uncertain times, incl . remote leadership
this high degree of coordination enabled us to acquire and deliver per-
sonal protective equipment and issue global workplace guidelines early in 
the crisis . we could therefore support our employees to continue doing 
their jobs in a safe and secure manner despite the many restrictions 
most countries implemented . an essential tool to support our employees’ 
productivity has been our it infrastructure, functioning work tools and 
technical support enabling people to work from home where possible .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
19
people
occupational accidents
(per million working hours)
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
0
2
4
6
8
lost workdays due to occupational injury
(per million working hours)
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
60
70
80
90
100
minimum requirements for health and safety 
with a large and increasing workforce, standardised processes 
and guidelines for health and safety are crucial to continue 
eliminating hazards, reducing risk, and collecting feedback 
from our employees, customers, and suppliers . in 2019, 
we began developing a global health and safety programme, 
which was approved by our executive board in 2020 .  
as part of the programme, we implemented global minimum 
requirements for health and safety in 2020, for all entities to 
follow . 
the new minimum requirements build on the foundation of 
the iso 45001 standard and are described in the health & 
safety policy manual which divides the minimum require-
ments into four key areas (see key areas below) .
the new global  
minimum requirements are 
built on the iso 45001  
standard, and described in 
the new health & safety  
policy manual
safe systems
identify and manage risks
ensure safe work practices 
comply with legislation and other requirements
safe people 
train competent staff
measure safety performance
drive improvements
safe workplace 
ensure emergency preparedness
ensure safe storage and handling
manage risk in interactions
safe equipment
adhere to procurement standards
operate as intended 
maintain to agreed standards
in 2020, we un-
fortunately saw an 
increase in the rate 
of occupational acci-
dents, mainly within 
our terminals and 
warehouses. how-
ever, as the impact 
and severity of the 
accidents were lower, 
we also experienced 
the lowest rate of 
lost workdays due to 
occupational injury 
since 2016.
with our new health 
and safety pro-
gramme, we aim to 
reduce the risk of 
accidents happening 
while increasing our 
operational perfor-
mance.
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
20
people
employee turnover ratio
(%)
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
15
20
25
30
35
sickness absence 
(days per fte)
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
3
4
5
6
7
good employer 
we genuinely believe that having a diverse workforce, where employees can 
realise their potential based on their different backgrounds, is a significant 
business advantage that we can leverage . a diverse workforce in an inclusive 
culture fosters dynamic workplaces and, ultimately, better business decisions .
   
diversity is the visible and invisible differences between people, including, 
but not limited to, gender, racial, cultural, national and occupational back-
ground, sexual preference, age, disability, religion and political opinion . it 
also encompasses diverse ways of thinking and ways of working .
in 2020, we revised our diversity policy, adding focus on inclusion . being 
inclusive is to recognise and accept the uniqueness of each individual – 
and to put that uniqueness before any visible and invisible traits and social 
identities that people carry with them . inclusion is also about removing 
obstacles and barriers so that current and future employees have equal 
opportunities in the organisation, regardless of the traits described above . 
this approach to diversity and inclusion as defined by our diversity & 
inclusion policy applies to all employees of the dsv panalpina organisation, 
including the executive board and the board of directors . the policy is 
available here .
initiatives and results
to strengthen the development of a diverse and inclusive working envi-
ronment, we started a number of initiatives in 2020 all aiming to promote 
and increase general diversity and inclusion awareness . we have also 
accommodated for this in our recruitment and advancement practices, as 
well as talent management processes and succession planning . 
in addition, we have a dedicated focus on achieving a more balanced gen-
der ratio throughout our global organisation, including at senior manage-
ment level . status on progress is reported to the nomination committee 
of the board, executive board and group executive committee at least 
once on a yearly basis . 
these initiatives also serve in supporting the united nations sustainable 
development goal number 10, aiming to reduce inequalities .
the high employee turnover in 2020 was 
due to the integration of panalpina, and 
because of adjustments in the organisation 
as trade activity decreased during covid-19 
restrictions globally. also, the transport and 
logistics industry generally has a high level of 
employee turnover among blue collar workers, 
due to seasonal fluctuations in the required 
workforce.
full time employees
56,000+
34%
female
38%
female
66%
male
62%
male
employee  
gender ratio
management  
ratio 
we are committed to a culture of respect 
and fairness, and strive to attract, moti-
vate and retain talented people by offering 
paths for their further development, with 
a clear commitment to diversity and inclu-
sion and human and labour rights.
diversity and inclusion 
transport and logistics is a people-driven business, meaning that our 
success as a company is dependent on having a competent and a highly 
motivated work force . that workforce is made even stronger when it is 
diverse in background and experience .
in 2020, we saw an increase in  
sickness absence which was 
predominantly due to covid-19.
gri: 102-41
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
21
people
gender diversity
the direction towards a balanced gender ratio is set at the very top by the 
board of directors . at present, the gender ratio of the board comprises 
43% women and 57% men, which is considered an equal gender repre-
sentation . the composition of the board of directors, including diversity 
and skills required by its members, is addressed at least once a year in the 
nomination committee and finally in the board of directors . the results 
are reported on in the corporate governance section of the dsv panalpina  
annual report .
the board also considers diversity at executive and lower management 
levels, including when appointing and evaluating the composition of the 
executive board . 
the current executive board of dsv panalpina, comprising the ceo 
and cfo, are both male, of danish nationality and have been with the 
company for more than 20 years . when any of these positions become 
vacant, the board of directors will oversee that the recruitment process 
will take diversity parameters into consideration at the same level as 
experience, background, and other relevant skills of the candidates .  
reporting on management gender  
composition cf. section 99b of the  
danish financial statements act
the danish financial statements act § 99b requires danish
companies of a certain size to set targets for and report on
gender representation in the company’s board of directors,
and further inform about the company’s policy on gender
representation on lower management levels. this section 
of the dsv panalpina corporate governance report 
addresses these requirements.
reporting on diversity policies  
cf. section 107d of the danish  
financial statements act
the danish financial statements act § 107d requires danish 
listed companies of a certain size to report on the diversity 
policies of the company targeting management composition. 
this section of the dsv panalpina corporate governance 
report addresses these requirements.
at lower management levels, 34% of all dsv panalpina managers are 
women and 66% men . the overall employee gender ratio in 2020 was 
38% women and 62% men .   
human and labour rights 
tying in with our approach to diversity and inclusion, we are likewise 
deeply committed to upholding human rights, and oppose discrimina-
tion, differential treatment, harassment, inappropriate or unreasonable 
interference with work performance and insist upon fair and equitable 
employment and working conditions for all .
human rights are fundamental rights and should always be protected . 
our policy is that anyone performing services on our behalf, either  
directly as an employee or indirectly as a supplier, must be treated  
decently and with dignity and must treat others in the same way . in  
our code of conduct we outline how we recognise and support human 
rights and fight modern slavery .
we support and will always work to comply with generally accepted 
human rights and must always comply with any applicable labour laws . 
local management in all sites have the responsibility to comply with 
these policies, including identifying any risks and potential impacts  
related to their implementation .
we are also committed to ensuring that there is no modern-day slavery 
or human trafficking in our supply chains nor in any part of our business . 
in the context of global supply chains, this refers to cases where people 
are subject to human trafficking, forced labour, or debt servitude . it also 
refers to instances where coercion, threats, or deception are used to 
intimidate, penalise, or deceive workers, thereby creating situations of 
involuntary work and exploitation .
in our yearly update regarding modern slavery, you can read more about 
our reflection on the modern slavery act .
gri: 102-41
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
22
people
online training 
platform
leadership
training
change 
management 
training
sales 
training
young  
dsv
dsv academy
growth through 
training
dsv academy
dsv academy is the umbrella programme that brings together 
our global training programmes and initiatives . we offer our 
employees training in subjects such as freight forwarding, 
recruitment, sales, traffic, languages, change management, 
leadership, warehousing, and logistics . 
online training platform
in 2020, we integrated a new library of e-learning courses  
to our global online training platform, dsv learning . the aim of 
the library is to support our managers and employees in their 
professional and personal development through “training on 
demand” and link training to specific competence development .
managers using dsv learning get full access and can take 
a course whenever it fits their schedule . with over 6,000 
hours of training, there is something for everyone on the new 
platform, whether they are looking for quick training on a very 
specific topic or looking to dive deeper into a certain area . the 
content of the new global online library covers both hard skills, 
such as technical knowledge, and soft skills, such as leadership 
and communication training .
leadership training
competent and highly skilled leaders are fundamental to a 
well-functioning organisation, particularly during uncertain 
times . we take the responsibility of leadership seriously by in-
vesting in tools and training that enables our leaders to better 
manage their employees and increase performance . 
our role as a good employer is to offer our  
employees opportunities to expand their skills. 
this benefits them, increases their job satisfac-
tion and results in a more engaged workforce.
our training focuses on a combination of business and peo-
ple leadership and includes topics such as communication, 
motivation, change management, situational leadership, and 
performance . an important part of the training is the pre- and 
post-assignments, which integrate content specific to each 
participant instead of using generic cases .
covid-19 made onsite training a challenge during 2020 . in 
january and february, we conducted our leadership training 
sessions as usual, but as restrictions were put in place, we 
had to postpone further sessions . instead, we offered global 
leadership training via our online platform, including a virtual 
leadership training programme with a live trainer . 
competent  
and highly  
skilled leaders  
are funda-
mental to a 
well-functioning  
organisation
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
23
people
young dsv
young dsv is our international freight forwarding trainee 
programme . the two-year programme takes trainees through 
on-the-job training in a local dsv department and 8 weeks of 
theoretical training . 
the theoretical training consists of eight different modules 
conducted by a danish business school and our own in-house 
experts . the trainees have regular follow-up meetings with 
their immediate manager to ensure that they are on track 
and that they improve their skills according to plan . trainees 
complete the programme by taking a final exam .
after having successfully completed the programme, trainees 
become certified freight forwarders, possessing the skills and 
knowledge needed to start a successful career at dsv panalpina .
in 2020, the young dsv programme was also affected by 
covid-19, as onsite training of our international participants 
was prohibited . instead, we were able to conduct the young 
dsv training online and therefore continue with the develop-
ment of the next generation of freight forwarders . 
new global hr system
another important element of our human resources strategy 
in 2020 was to continue the implementation of a new global 
hr system to support employee development . the system 
enables ongoing goal and priority setting and ensure continu-
ous feedback .
combined with an open and transparent dialogue, we can ensure 
that everyone has the right skills and knows what to focus on in 
their jobs . by “checking in” with employees more often and hav-
ing an easier way to document goals and progress and to give 
feedback we want to raise employee motivation and alignment .
combined with 
an open and 
transparent  
dialogue, we 
can ensure that 
everyone has 
the right skills 
and knows 
what to focus 
on in their jobs
young dsv is our international freight 
forwarding trainee programme. the 
two-year programme takes trainees through 
on-the-job training in a local dsv depart-
ment and 8 weeks of theoretical training. 
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
24
people
responsible 
procurement
we ensure our suppliers meet our high 
standards, service quality, and price  
requirements and demonstrate an under-
standing of our corporate responsibility 
objectives
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
25
responsible procurement
2020
2021
as an asset-light company, we engage suppliers to perform transport 
and logistics services on our behalf . this means that we are highly de-
pendent on their performance and standards, and that most of the im-
pacts we are responsible for, environmental or otherwise, occur through 
our suppliers . it is therefore crucial to our success that our suppliers 
deliver the services they commit to providing and do so in a manner that 
meets the expectations of our customers . 
we see our suppliers as an extension to our business and we focus on 
creating strong collaborative relationships with them, but with a global 
network consisting of thousands of suppliers, we are sometimes faced with 
the risk of non-compliance from their activities . therefore, we continuously 
work to minimise these risks by clearly communicating our requirements 
and processes to them, emphasising on an open and transparent dialogue .
as part of our collaboration, we expect our suppliers to meet our 
standards regarding ethics, quality, health, safety, and sustainability . we 
prioritise reliability and source suppliers that demonstrate commitment 
to corporate responsibility .
during 2020, we continued our development of a global supplier man-
agement framework that aims to improve our ability to vet systemati-
cally and onboard suppliers according to the standards we expect from 
them . in 2021, our target is to roll out the new and improved frame-
work .
integrated panalpina 
in our responsible 
procurement  
framework
strengthened 
organisation to 
work on a new global 
supplier management 
framework
developed the 
blueprint for global 
supplier management 
framework
distributed the sup-
plier code of conduct 
to all suppliers with a 
yearly spend of more 
than eur 25,000 
achievements 2020
all suppliers with a 
yearly spend of more 
than eur 25,000 to 
receive the supplier 
code of conduct 
perform 400 or more 
supplier audits 
roll out new and 
improved global 
supplier onboard-
ing programme
targets 2021
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
26
responsible procurement
supplier 
engagement  
and conduct
global framework for supplier management 
with many suppliers in our global network, strong procurement pro-
cedures are crucial to maintaining high standards and delivering quality 
services . since our procurement procedures so far have primarily been 
anchored locally and regionally, we have faced challenges in ensuring 
alignment across supplier types and across our entire supply chain . in 
2019, we therefore began developing a new, global supplier management 
framework, which we continued to work on in 2020 . 
the global supplier management framework will streamline onboarding of 
suppliers across the company, as every supplier will be vetted through the 
same central channel . the framework will include a simple and automated 
due diligence process based on legal and industry requirements such as 
health and safety and the environment . we will get an overview of all 
fundamental to our relationship with our suppliers is the dsv panalpina 
supplier code of conduct, which clearly outlines the conduct and stan-
dards required to perform services on our behalf . we have maintained and 
distributed this policy to suppliers for many years, and to ensure that it al-
ways reflects our development, we review the supplier code of conduct 
on a yearly basis . in 2019, it underwent a substantial update, while our 
review in 2020 concluded that an update was not necessary . 
in 2020, integrating new entities and suppliers from the panalpina acqui-
sition into our framework for responsible procurement was a key activity .  
as our global network continues to expand, it is ever more important 
to minimise risks by ensuring proper inclusion of local entities into our 
procurement procedures .
the supplier code of conduct is distributed to all suppliers with a yearly 
spend of more than eur 25,000 . for road freight suppliers, we distribute 
a road haulier code of conduct, which defines our ethical principles and 
health and safety requirements for road hauliers . topics include truck 
safety, safe driving on the road, working rights for drivers, and more .
as part of our procurement framework, we track the performance of our sup-
pliers to ensure they live up to regulations and to our standards . our local en-
tities perform the tracking and ensure that any non-compliance is immediately 
addressed with corrective action where needed . tracking the performance of 
our suppliers also enables us to evaluate and review them on an ongoing basis .
suppliers and their risk level, enabling us to accurately identify and assess 
suppliers throughout the company . 
in 2021, our primary focus will be on a stepwise implementation of the 
global framework for supplier management with a selected group of sup-
pliers identified through a risk-based assessment . eventually, all suppliers 
in our supplier network will be included in the framework, providing us 
with a tool that more effectively helps us mitigate risk and protect our 
customers and our company even better .
partners we collaborate with towards responsible procurement  
• clean cargo working group (ccwg)
• sustainable air freight alliance (safa)
•  smart freight centre’s global logistics emissions council (glec)
vetted 
business  
partners
supplier channel system
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
27
responsible procurement
business  
ethics
we do business with integrity,  
respecting different cultures and 
the dignity and rights of individuals 
in all countries
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
28
business ethics
2020
2021
integrated 
panalpina into our 
business ethics 
framework
completed 
roll-out of code 
of conduct 
e-learning to all 
dsv managers
provided code of 
conduct e-learning 
to selected employees  
below manager  
level
as a company with daily operations all over the world and a focus on 
growing through mergers and acquisitions, as well as organically, we face 
many different types of risks, operational, financial, and reputational, 
that require our attention . on all levels, and in all the places that we do 
business, we are therefore committed to honest and ethical business 
practices and are complying with all relevant regulations . 
we remain focused on key ethical topics such as anti-corruption, 
anti-competitive behaviour, conflicts of interest, our whistle-blower 
programme, and on creating a culture where employees understand their 
role in maintaining high ethical standards . 
doing business with integrity helps us create stronger and more trusting 
relationships with our stakeholders, and it strengthens our work force, 
train 100% of 
white-collar em-
ployees in the code 
of conduct through 
e-learning
achieve 90% or above 
pass rating of code 
of conduct e-learning 
on first attempt for all 
white-collar employees
achievements 2020
targets 2021
as people want to work for a company that has a strong focus on ethical 
behaviour . crucially, our focus on compliance and good ethical practices 
also makes sense financially and is key to long-term business stability .
in 2020, we continued our journey of creating awareness about our ethi-
cal framework and whistle-blower programme, and for 2021, we have  
goals for even more widespread training . 
continued local 
awareness training  
as well as whistle- 
blower programme 
awareness
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
29
business ethics
2020
2019
41
0
25
50
75
100
60
guiding ethical  
behaviour
the foundation for our culture of compliance is the dsv panalpina code 
of conduct . we perform yearly reviews to ensure full alignment with 
the business and compliance with applicable laws and internationally 
recognised regulations such as the uk bribery act 2010 and the foreign 
corrupt practices act (fcpa) . we made a substantial update to the code 
of conduct in 2019, and in 2020, we found that no updates to the 
content were necessary .
the code of conduct is based on our values and applies to all employees, 
including executive board and the board of directors . when people begin 
working for us, they receive the code of conduct and must confirm that 
they will adhere to it, and through continuous training we ensure that 
everyone understands it . 
a key activity for us in 2020 was integrating former panalpina employ-
ees into our business ethics framework . during the process, we used 
newsletters, e-learning, and other communication tools to inform our 
new colleagues about the framework . as the number of employees 
continues to increase, it is even more important to minimise risks by 
ensuring proper inclusion into our business ethics framework . 
awareness through training
we continued our efforts in 2020 to ensure that everyone in the com-
pany understands our code of conduct and receives the proper training 
to comply with it .
in order to achieve this, we offer both local, in-person and online training, 
accommodating the different responsibilities and job types that our em-
ployees have throughout the company . the online training consists of an 
e-learning course, which includes a final exam, enabling us to ensure that 
topics are understood effectively .
by the end of 2019, 86% of managers had completed the code of 
conduct e-learning, and in 2020, we reached a 100% completion rate . 
to support increasing awareness, we also provided the e-learning to 
selected white-collar employee groups below manager level, who were 
identified through a risk assessment focused on certain job functions . 
in 2021, our target is to ensure that 100% of our white-collar employ-
ees go through the code of conduct e-learning course, and that they 
achieve a 90% or above pass rate in the first attempt . going forward, 
the e-learning will be automatically assigned to all new managers who 
will be required to take it on an annual basis . 
secure whistle-blower channel
central to our business ethics framework is our whistle-blower pro-
gramme, which offers protection and assurance to employees and busi-
ness partners who want to report incidents of potential misconduct .
the programme has been running for several years, and we continuously 
encourage people to report their concerns, suspicions, or knowledge of 
misconduct through the programme as it allows us to take appropriate 
action . people can use an app or a website to report incidents, and to 
safeguard the anonymity of those making a report, the channels are 
administered by an external provider . 
all reports made in the whistle-blower system that are within scope of the 
programme are subject to an investigation so that appropriate corrective 
action can be taken . the purpose of an investigation is to verify collected 
facts, possibly collect further information, and to communicate findings 
and necessary information to the group cfo . ultimately, the information  
is communicated to the audit committee of the board of directors .
the number of reported incidents in 2020 was 41 – a decrease com-
pared to 2019, where 60 cases were reported . we had a higher level  
in 2019 after going through a major acquisition and we are now back  
on the level before 2019 . the majority of cases in 2020 consisted of  
hr related matters not in scope for the whistle-blower programme .
in 2020, we conducted awareness 
training on the whistle-blower 
programme, work that will continue 
in 2021 with an awareness campaign 
focusing on how, where and when to 
report an incident. 
reported  
incidents
whistle-blower programme
number of reported incidents
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
30
business ethics
taxes and  
data privacy
our tax contributions
we are committed to complying with tax legislation and do not engage in 
aggressive tax planning to avoid taxes . we believe in contributing our fair 
share to the societies and local communities in which we operate .
in 2020, we contributed with direct and indirect taxes such as corporate 
taxes, vat, gst, duties etc . in more than 80 countries, and our corporate 
tax payments amounted to dkk 1,063 million . through our tax contri-
bution, we directly and indirectly support local communities and the un’s 
sustainable development goals, specifically sdg 16 regarding peace, 
justice and strong institutions and sdg 17 regarding partnerships for the 
goals . 
we do not support or actively seek to set up non-operational entities 
in identified tax havens but do occasionally inherit offshore company 
constructions in mergers and acquisitions . in those cases, our priority is 
to liquidate these companies as soon as possible . besides this, we also 
still have normal operational entities in e .g . countries like panama which 
is classified by the eu as a non-cooperative tax jurisdiction . maintaining 
end-to-end supply chains for our customers, we also need operational 
entities in countries that may reside companies for tax purposes .
you can read our full approach to taxes in our tax policy, which includes 
roles, responsibilities, and risk management, including management of 
concerns and stakeholder engagement . read it here . 
in 2020,  
we contributed  
taxes in over  
80 
countries
data privacy
we seek to protect personal data where we have it and have the appro-
priate organisational and technical security measures in place . we have 
an obligation to comply with international data privacy laws, such as the 
european union’s general data protection regulation (gdpr) . 
we operate globally and connect with employees and customers through 
a range of secure solutions . we store and access information in various 
devices, and we are required to protect both business data and personal 
data . 
our employees are our first line of defence for protecting the company 
from potential data privacy breaches . therefore, we have launched a 
global programme for our employees called simply secure . this infor-
mation security programme focuses on employee behaviour to ensure 
a high level of security, against common security risks such as phish-
ing . the programme is aimed at everyone in the company and creates 
awareness through monthly newsletters, e-learning, intranet news 
articles, and through an online platform describing all aspects of data 
privacy .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
31
business ethics
community 
engagement
we engage with and support communities 
in which we operate, and we use our 
expertise to support people in need
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
32
community engagement
03 
click to watch 
the video
01
02 
05 
06
04
being a responsible, sustainable 
company is also about using our 
expertise to support people in 
need. that includes giving back to 
the communities where we oper-
ate and making a real difference for 
people in vulnerable populations.  
our community engagement is 
centred around our partnership 
with the red cross | red crescent 
movement through the danish  
red cross and is supported by  
local activities around the world. 
01 . supporting relief in cox’s bazar
restrictions to confine covid-19 in 
bangladesh stopped much of the human-
itarian work in the world’s largest refugee 
camp, cox’s bazar . dsv supports the red 
cross financially to provide food, shelter, 
and protection in and around the camp .   
read the full story here
02 . warning system can  
anticipate natural disasters
we are proud to sponsor forecast-based 
action which helps the red cross 
anticipate disasters and save lives . when 
disaster strikes, our teams are ready to 
transport relief equipment to disas-
ter-struck areas .
03 . new warehouse space for  
red cross emergency equipment
we donate more than 2,000 m2 of 
warehouse space in copenhagen to the 
danish red cross to store emergency 
relief equipment and to train disaster 
relief teams for deployment . in 2020, we 
offered new and improved warehouse 
space for this important task . 
read the full story here
04 . red cross relief efforts in beirut
following the devastating explosion in 
beirut in august 2020, we supported 
the red cross | red crescent’s relief 
efforts with a financial donation .  
read the full story here
05 . cleaning up dsv sites on  
world clean-up day
dsv panalpina teams from the us, 
canada, romania, poland, the philip-
pines, germany and many more 
countries participated in world clean-up 
day in 2020, an annual event uniting 
millions of people to clean up litter .
06 . dsv hong kong won awards
recognising its efforts to enhance 
employees’ wellbeing and protect the 
environment, dsv hong kong was 
named a ‘hong kong green organisa-
tion’ and a ‘good mpf employer’ by 
local authorities . the eco-friendly 
measures by the company included 
initiatives to encourage saving energy, 
water and paper resources .
07 . support for victims of  
taal volcano eruption
in february 2020, dsv in the philippines 
donated food, toiletries, and clothing to 
support the victims of the most recent 
eruption of the taal volcano in the 
philippines .
07
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
33
community engagement
governance
34
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
governance
organisation
air & sea
road
solutions
board of directors
annual general meeting
board committees
division management
group functions  
corporate responsibility
executive board
sustainability board
group functions 
the group corporate respon-
sibility team is responsible for 
the day-to-day management 
and follow-up of all material 
topics . they are also the link 
between the local operations 
and our management, ensuring 
alignment across the whole 
company .
board of directors 
the board of directors is 
responsible for setting the 
direction for corporate 
responsibility . they shape the 
strategy and determine the 
targets in close alignment 
with the executive board . 
organisation 
divisional management and our 
local entities in the divisions have 
a crucial role in ensuring that our 
corporate responsibility initia-
tives are implemented and that 
ownership is taken to drive the 
initiatives forward .
sustainability board 
responsibility for activities  
related to environmental sus-
tainability has been delegated 
from the executive board to 
a new sustainability board . 
chaired by our ceo, the board 
sets the direction for our sus-
tainability strategy, determines 
and monitors the performance 
of our targets and approves all 
global initiatives . 
as a global company,  
we rely on strong align-
ment throughout the 
organisation – from 
management to local 
entities – in order to  
realise our corporate 
responsibility strategy. 
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
35
governance
policies
ensuring compliance with laws and regulations and employing responsible 
business practices in a global organisation require solid processes, sys-
tems, and policies to guide decision making . you can read our policies re-
lated to corporate responsibility here .
review of our programmes
to provide greater assurance that our agreed governance works as in-
tended, we have processes for both internal and external reviews on a 
continued basis . examples of these are found below and they are de-
scribed in our internal control framework description found here .
ensuring 
appropriate 
governance
new global multisite iso certification 
as part of our qhse (quality, health, safety & environment) programme, 
we work with iso certifications in a number of locations worldwide . the 
process of obtaining iso certifications has historically been a locally driven 
process, but as dsv panalpina has grown in recent years, and the benefits 
of iso certifications for us and our customers are becoming ever more ap-
parent, we have chosen to implement a global multisite certificate for iso 
9001 (quality), iso 45001 (health & safety) and iso 14001 (environ-
ment) thereby securing one global framework and set of controls . 
the decision to opt-in to the global multisite certificate and obtain the iso 
certifications remains with the local entities . when a local entity chooses 
to opt-in, they agree to adhere to all iso requirements and processes 
which will lead to even higher standards supporting our employees, opera-
tions and customer needs . with the implementation of our global multisite 
certificate for all three standards, we expect the number of certified loca-
tions to increase .
in 2020, the percentage of locations covered by iso certifications de-
creased compared to 2019 due to the panalpina acquisition . panalpina had 
a multisite certificate covering all locations against the three standards iso 
9001, iso 45001 and iso 14001, which was cancelled in january 2020 . 
the executive board therefore decided to set the ambitious target to have 
all local iso certificates transferred to one group multisite certificate in 
2020, which we managed to achieve . 
rating agencies
we subscribe to the rating agencies ecovadis, cdp, sam corporate sus-
tainability assessment and iss esg .
ecovadis rates companies annually based on their efforts within corporate 
social responsibility (csr), evaluating on environment, labour & human 
rights, ethics and sustainable procurement aspects .
cdp is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global disclosure system for 
investors, companies, cities, states, and regions to manage their environ-
mental impacts .
sam corporate sustainability assessment rates companies annually 
based on environmental, social, governance and economic performance .
iss esg is a monthly evaluation of companies on governance, environ-
ment and social performance . 
compliance reviews
on-site reviews are part of our self-assessment process . they focus on fi-
nance, tax, legal and corporate responsibility matters to ensure compliance 
with procedures and reporting processes . the specific areas covered in a re-
view are based on the risk profile of the relevant site and on key controls 
within the different review areas .
in 2020, we performed limited on-site reviews due to the restrictions im-
posed globally from covid-19 . however, it was possible to conduct a num-
ber of remote reviews based on defined priority rules . for 2021, we have de-
veloped a tentative visit plan to get into the normal review process, but the 
final execution is dependent on the improvement of the covid-19 situation 
and accompanying restrictions and travel rules .  
in addition to the governance setup  
described on the previous page, we have 
several internal and external processes 
ensuring the appropriate governance  
of our activities.
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
36
governance
factbook
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
37
factbook
reporting approach
in this section, we present the definitions we use 
for our key ratios covering our material areas in the 
reporting period. 
accounting policies for  
non-financial highlights 
policies applied
the figures and charts of the 2020 corporate responsibility 
report have been prepared in accordance with the policies 
applied last year, except for below changes . 
environmental data
updated methodology (scope 1 & 3)
in 2020, we have adjusted the calculation methodology, 
where calculations of emissions from freight forwarding 
services (transportation by air, sea, road and rail) are per-
formed with greater detail by splitting routes into relevant legs 
and applying more granulated parameters on shipment level, 
instead of using average parameters on consolidated levels .
scope 2
in 2020 the scope 2 emissions from electricity have been 
updated due to change in the methodology used, to follow the 
guidance from science based targets . 
the impact on 2019 emissions from change in methodology 
is an increase of 2,521,130 tonnes of co2, as illustrated in the 
table to the left .
historical emission figures have been restated according to the 
updated methodology .
emissions
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from transport activi-
ties are calculated in line with the ecotransit methodology .  
ecotransit methodology is in accordance with en 16258 and 
the greenhouse gas protocol . the calculations include co2e 
emissions from air and sea carriers and road hauliers .
carbon emissions from buildings are calculated based on 
direct consumption of electricity, gas, oil and water from dsv 
panalpina’s locations .
emissions from company cars and business travels have been 
calculated based on fuel consumption from the company car 
fleet and collected emission data from travel agencies .
emissions are reported in scope 1, 2 and 3 according to the 
definitions in the green house gas protocol .
co2e scope 1*: direct emissions from owned or controlled 
sources, which are natural gas, oil and water consumed in own 
buildings, company cars and our own small fleet of trucks in 
metric tonnes .
co2e scope 2*: indirect emissions from purchased electricity, 
heating and cooling in metric tonnes .
co2e scope 3*: indirect emissions resulting from our value 
chain, including all our subcontracted transport (air & sea car-
riers and road hauliers) and business travels in metric tonnes .
science-based targets:  
bridging responsibility report 
2019 to our baseline
total 
scope 1
total 
scope 2
total  
scope 3
total
dsv responsibility report 2019 
(panalpina included sept.-dec. 2019)
65,258
42,482
7,911,000
8,018,740
panalpina (jan.-aug. 2019)
11,808
25,219
5,539,521
5,576,548
other adjustments  
(updated methodology)
5,580
39,550
2,476,000
2,521,130
= sbti baseline 2019
82,646
107,251
15,926,521
16,116,418
*   in accordance with esg definitions from nasdaq copenhagen
reporting scope 
this corporate responsibility report provides information and 
data on the corporate responsibility activities of dsv panalpina 
a/s and its subsidiaries in which an ownership interest of more 
than 50% is held . the report covers the 12-month period 
ended 31 december 2020 and forms part of management’s 
review covering the statutory reporting on corporate social 
responsibility, as required by section 99a of the danish financial 
statements act .
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
38
factbook
energy efficiency
average emissions from shipments relative to freight volume and trans-
portation distance is disclosed as grams of co2e for 1 tonne of freight 
moved 1 km .
energy consumption*
consumption of relevant fuel types, electricity, district heating, and cool-
ing from scope 1 & 2 converted into giga joule . 
water*
total consumption of water at dsv panalpina’s locations in m3 .
renewable energy share*
renewable energy sources in percent of total energy consumed in scope 
1 and 2 .
euro engine standards
proportion of different euro engine standards of trucks operating for dsv 
road europe . 
recycling of paper, cardboard, and plastic 
total square metres at dsv panalpina locations having initiated recycling 
schemes for paper, cardboard, and plastic, relative to the total number of 
square metres at locations of dsv panalpina .
social data
updated methodology
sickness absence has been changed to number of days of absence due to 
sickness per fte . comparison figures have been restated according to the 
updated methodology .
employees (full-time workforce)*
number of full-time employees at year-end .
gender diversity*
number of female and male employees relative to total employees at 
year-end .
gender diversity, management*
number of female and male managers relative to total number of manag-
ers at year-end .
age distribution of employees
number of employees by age group relative to total employees .
employee seniority
number of employees by seniority level relative to total employees .
employee turnover*
number of employees leaving dsv panalpina group during the year, rela-
tive to the average number of employees in the year .
sickness absence*
number of days of absence due to sickness per employee .
occupational accidents
number of reported occupational accidents resulting in more than one 
day of absence per million working hours scheduled for the year .
lost workdays due to occupational injury
number of reported days of absence from occupational accidents result-
ing in more than one day of absence per million working hours scheduled 
for the year .
fatal accidents
absolute number of fatal accidents .
other data
management system certifications
number of dsv panalpina locations certified according to iso 9001, 
iso 14001 and iso 45001, relative to total number of dsv panalpina 
locations .
distribution of dsv panalpina’s supplier code of conduct
number of suppliers with a yearly spend above eur 25,000 where dsv 
panalpina’s supplier code of conduct have been distributed, relative to 
total number of suppliers with a yearly spend above eur 25,000 .
*   in accordance with esg definitions from nasdaq copenhagen
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
39
factbook
data summary
environmental data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
co2e scope 1 (‘000 tonnes)
company cars *
13
14
road emissions (own fleet)
43
37
39
39
36
building emissions 
24
23
22
19
23
total co2e scope 1
80
74
61
58
59
co2e scope 2 (‘000 tonnes)
building emissions 
98
85
78
78
87
total co2e scope 2
98
85
78
78
87
co2e scope 3 (‘000 tonnes) **
business travel *
1
8
air transport
6,825
4,631
3,291
3,208
3,002
sea transport
1,366
1,553
820
855
867
road transport
4,233
3,682
3,899
3,864
3,569
rail transport *
139
total co2e scope 3
12,564
9,874
8,010
7,927
7,438
environmental data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
energy efficiency on average 
(gram co2e per tonne transported one km) **
co2e (g/tonne-km) – air transport
704.0
718.2
728.0
751.0
745.0
co2e (g/tonne-km) – sea transport
6.2
6.4
7.0
7.3
7.9
co2e (g/tonne-km) – road transport
90.2
90.6
93.9
94.8
96.3
co2e (g/tonne-km) – rail transport *
32.7
energy consumption scope 1 & 2 
('000 gigajoule)
total energy consumption *
1,673
water ('000 m3) 
total water consumption - buildings
1,152
1,596
1,485
1,435
1,151
renewable energy share (%)
renewable *
22%
non-renewable *
78%
euro engine standards (%)
proportion of trucks of dsv road satisfying 
euro 2 standard or older (own and suppliers’ trucks)
0.2
0.2
0.7
0.7
1.2
proportion of trucks of dsv road satisfying 
euro 3 or 4 standards (own and suppliers’ trucks)
10.4
16.5
19.3
20.8
24.1
proportion of trucks of dsv road satisfying 
euro 5 or 6 standards (own and suppliers’ trucks)
89.4
83.3
80.0
78.5
74.7
recycling of paper, caradboard and plastic (%)
proportion of locations recycling paper, cardboard, 
and/or plastic from offices, terminals, and warehouses
74
74
79
74
70
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
40
factbook
*   full five-year historical data not available
** comparative figures have been restated
social data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
employees (full-time workforce)
total
56,621
61,216
47,394
45,636
44,779
salaried employees
29,544
32,820
23,088
22,730
23,436
hourly workers
27,077
28,396
24,306
22,906 
21,343
gender diversity (%)
proportion of female employees
38
39
38
39
38
proportion of male employees
62
61
62
61
62
gender diversity, management (%)
proportion of female managers
34
33
28
31
31
proportion of male managers
66
67
72
69
69
age distribution of employees (%)
employees <25
8.4
9.5
8.0
8.3
7.9
employees 25-34
29.1
29.3
30.0
30.7
31.8
employees 35-44
30.7
30.6
29.8
29.6
28.7
employees 45-54
20.4
19.5
20.5
20.5
20.2
employees >54
11.4
11.1
11.7
10.9
11.4
social data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
employee seniority (%)
seniority <1 year
17.0
17.7
19.4
19.1
19.5
seniority 1-2 years
22.8
22.7
21.9
21.1
21.5
seniority 3-5 years
19.9
19.8
17.2
16.2
16.1
seniority 6-10 years
15.3
15.5
15.2
17.3
18.1
seniority 11-25 years
20.3
20.0
21.4
20.5
19.0
seniority >25 years
4.7
4.3
4.9
5.8
5.8
employee turnover ratio (%)
total
32.5
23.6
20.1
18.0
26.6
salaried employees
31.5
21.9
19.6
18.4
27.0
hourly workers
33.6
25.3
20.6
17.5
26.1
sickness absence (days per fte) **
total
6.4
6.0
5.9
4.7
5.1
salaried employees
5.8
6.0
6.6
4.7
4.9
hourly workers
7.1
5.9
5.2
4.7
5.5
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
41
factbook
*   full five-year historical data not available
** comparative figures have been restated
governance and other data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
management system certifications 
(% of locations in dsv panalpina)
iso 9001 (quality)
38
61
40
39
43
iso 45001 (health & safety)
22
40
19
12
15
iso 14001 (environment)
30
52
33
24
23
distribution of dsv’s supplier  
code of conduct (%)
total
100
100
95
93
79
social data
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
occupational accidents  
(per million working hours)
total
6.7
5.0
4.6
4.2
4.6
salaried employees
0.8
0.9
0.5
0.8
1.3
hourly workers
13.3
9.1
8.3
7.6
8.9
lost workdays due to occupational injury  
(per million working hours)
total
78.8
97.5
98.0
81.2
64.1
salaried employees
16.0
22.0
23.2
20.8
9.7
hourly workers
148.6
173.8
164.5
142.5
133.5
fatal accidents
fatal accidents in absolute numbers
0
1
0
0
0
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
42
factbook
gri 101: foundation (2016)
gri 102: general disclosures (2016)
location in report
organisational profile
102-1
name of the organisation
crr page 46
102-2
activities, brands, products, and services
crr page 6, ar page 9
102-3
location of the headquarters
crr page 46
102-4
location of operations
ar page 79 – 86
102-5
ownership and legal form
ar page 37
102-6
markets served
ar page 21 – 27
102-7
scale of the organisation
ar page 6 – 9
102-8
information on employees and other workers
ar page 51, crr page 21, 41
102-9
supply chain
ar page 21 – 27, crr page 25
102-10
significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain
none
102-11
precautionary principle approach
ar page 28 – 33
gri 102: general disclosures (2016)
location in report
102-12
external initiatives
crr page 2
102-13
membership of associations
www.dsv.com/csr
strategy
102-14
statement from senior decision-maker
crr page 3
102-15
key impacts, risks and opportunities
ar page 28 – 33, crr page 8
ethics and integrity
102-16
values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour
crr page 28 – 31
governance
102-18
governance structure
ar page 34 – 36, crr page 34 – 36
stakeholder engagement
102-40
list of stakeholder groups
crr page 7
102-41
collective bargaining agreements
crr page 21 – 22
102-42
identifying and selecting stakeholders
crr page 7 – 9
102-43
approach to stakeholder engagement
crr page 7 – 9
102-44
key topics and concerns raised
crr page 7 – 9
reporting practice
102-45
entities included in the consolidated financial statements
ar page 46
102-46
defining report content and topic boundaries
crr page 7 – 9
102-47
list of material topics
crr page 7 – 9
102-48
restatements of information
none
102-49
changes in reporting
none
102-50
reporting period
the year 2020
102-51
date of most recent report
responsibility report 2019, published q1 2020 
102-52
reporting cycle
annual
102-53
contact point for questions regarding the report
group sustainability, csr@dsv.com
102-54
claims of reporting in accordance with the gri standards
core option, crr page 43
102-55
gri content index
crr page 43
102-56
external assurance
none
gri content index
the global reporting initiative is a non-profit organi-
sation that has produced a set of disclosures and 
guidelines for sustainability reporting . the main goal 
of the gri is to create a framework for systematic, 
transparent and comparable sustainability reporting 
for corporations .
all disclosures in this report are based on the 2016 
edition of the gri standards unless otherwise noted . 
for the materiality disclosures service, gri services 
reviewed that the gri content index is clearly pre-
sented and the references for disclosures 102-40 to 
102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body 
of the report . this report has been prepared in ac-
cordance with the gri standards: core option .
every profile or performance disclosure applied is 
linked to a specific section on our corporate website 
(www .dsv .com), the annual report (ar) or the cor-
porate responsibility report (crr) .
gri: 102-45, 102-48, 102-49
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
43
factbook
topic-specific disclosures
location in report
business ethics 
this topic corresponds to the gri standards “205 anti-corruption”, “206 anti-competitive behaviour”, “207 taxes” and “418 
customer privacy”
gri 103: management approach (2016)
103-1
crr page 30, 35 – 36
103-2
crr page 30, 35 – 36
103-3
crr page 30, 35 – 36
gri 205: anti-corruption (2016)
205-1
operations assessed for risks related to corruption
ar page 28 – 33
205-2
communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
crr page 30
gri 206: anti-competitive behaviour (2016)
206-1
legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices
none
gri 207: tax (2019)
207-1
approach to tax
ar page 71 – 73, crr page 31
207-2
tax governance, control and risk management
crr page 31
207-3
stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax
crr page 31
207-4
country-by-country reporting
ar page 71 – 73
gri 418: customer privacy (2016)
418-1
substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data
none
people 
this topic corresponds to the gri standards “401 employment”, “403 occupational health 
and safety”, “405 diversity and equal opportunity”, “408 child labour”, and “409 forced 
or compulsory labour”.
gri 103: management approach (2016)
103-1
crr page 35 – 36
103-2
crr page 35 – 36
103-3
crr page 35 – 36
topic-specific disclosures
location in report
gri 401: employment (2016)
401-1
new employee hires and employee turnover
ar page 51, crr page 21
gri 403: occupational health and safety (2016)
403-1
occupational health and safety management system
crr page 36
403-2
hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation
crr page 19 – 21
403-3
occupational health services
crr page 19 – 21
403-4
worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health 
and safety
crr page 19 – 21
403-5
worker training on occupational health and safety
crr page 19 – 21
403-6
promotion of worker health
crr page 19 – 21
403-7
prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationships
crr page 19 – 21
403-8
workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
crr page 19 – 21
403-9
work-related injuries
crr page 19 – 21, 41
403-10
work-related ill health
crr page 19 – 21, 41
gri 405: diversity and equal opportunity (2016)
405-1
diversity of governance bodies and employees
crr page 21, 41
gri 408: child labor (2016)
408-1
operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour
ar page 28 – 33
gri 409: forced or compulsory labour (2016)
409-1
operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labour
ar page 28 – 33
environment 
this topic corresponds to the gri standards “302 energy”, “305 emissions”,  
“306 waste” and “307 environmental compliance”.
gri 103: management approach (2016) 
103-1
crr page 35 – 36
103-2
crr page 35 – 36
103-3
crr page 35 – 36
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
44
factbook
topic-specific disclosures
location in report
gri 302: energy (2016)
302-1
energy consumption within the organisation
crr page 40
302-2
energy consumption outside of the organisation
crr page 40
302-3
energy intensity
crr page 40
302-4
reduction of energy consumption
crr page 40
302-5
reduction in energy requirements of products and services
crr page 40
gri 305: emissions (2016)
305-1
direct (scope 1) ghg emissions
crr page 40
305-2
energy indirect (scope 2) emissions
crr page 40
305-3
other indirect (scope 3) ghg emissions
crr page 40
305-4
ghg emissions intensity
crr page 40
305-5
reduction of ghg emissions
crr page 40
gri 306: waste (2020)
306-1
waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
crr page 40
306-2
management of significant waste-related impacts
crr page 35 – 36
gri 307: environmental compliance (2016)
307-1
non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
none
community engagement 
this topic corresponds to the gri standard “203 indirect economic impacts”. 
gri 103: management approach (2016)
103-1
crr page 35 – 36
103-2
crr page 35 – 36
103-3
crr page 35 – 36
gri 203: indirect economic impacts (2016)
203-2
significant indirect economic impacts
crr page 33
topic-specific disclosures
location in report
responsible procurement 
this topic corresponds to the gri standards “308 supplier environmental assessment”, 
“414 supplier social assessment”. 
gri 103: management approach (2016)
103-1
crr page 35 – 36
103-2
crr page 35 – 36
103-3
crr page 35 – 36
gri 308: supplier environmental assessment (2016)
308-2
negative environmental impacts in the supply chains and actions taken
crr page 25 – 27
gri 414: supplier social assessment (2016)
414-2
negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
crr page 25 – 27
dsv panalpina corporate responsibility report 2020
45
factbook
dsv panalpina a/s
hovedgaden 630 
2640 hedehusene 
denmark
tel. +45 4320 3040 
e-mail: info@dsv.com 
www.dsv.com
cvr-no 58 23 35 28
group corporate responsibility report for the year ended 
31 december 2020 — 44th financial year 
 
published 10 february 2021
