 
 
 
 
 
b 
sustainability • esg report 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
 
 
 
 
2  sustainability - esg report ⋅ contents 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
gn sustainability – esg report 2020 
management’s commitment 
3 
our approach to sustainability 
4 
where gn has lasting impact 
5 
making life sound better 
6 
doing business the right way 
9 
engaged and focused people 
11 
safety and support during the pandemic 
13 
calling all innovators 
14 
sustainable products and packaging 
15 
smart sustainable packaging 
18 
sustainable operations 
19 
2025 sustainability goals 
21 
company and grassroots support 
22 
sustainability governance 
25 
stakeholder engagement 
26 
about this report 
27 
appendix 1: gn’s 2025 sustainability goals 
29 
appendix 2: esg data 
32 
appendix 3: business model 
33 
 
 
 
contents 
membership of un global compact 
member since january 14, 2010 
number of employees: 6,525 
sector: health care equipment and electronics 
reporting date: february 11, 2021 
the report covers the period: january 1, 2020 to 
december 31, 2020 
 
this report forms part of the management’s report 
in the annual report 2020 for gn store nord a/s 
and constitutes gn’s corporate responsibility report 
according to section 99a in the danish financial 
statements act. 
 
the report is not covered by the audit. 
 
visit www.gn.com/about/corporate-sustainability to 
read our responsibility guidelines and policies. 
3  sustainability – esg report ⋅management’s commitment 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
gn’s hearing, audio and collaboration solutions let people 
hear more, whether at work, at home or during leisure 
activities. people are enabled to do more, for example 
improving productivity or communicating with loved ones. 
these benefits allow people to be more, whether 
improving health, becoming more productive, regaining a 
desired role in society or at work, or understanding 
colleagues. in short, gn enables people to live better and 
more fulfilling lives. 
 
as our business grows, so does our positive impact on 
society. further, gn has always strived to do business the 
right way – in how we produce, in how we treat people, 
and in how we govern our company. this work is aligned 
with the un's sustainable development goals (sdgs). 
 
we made progress in many areas in 2020. to name a few: 
the packaging of major jabra product lines is now truly 
sustainable; we intensified investigation of sustainable 
materials for future products; we worked in many parts of 
the world to support hearing loss for those most in need; 
and with rechargeable batteries as the new standard in our 
hearing aids we aim to save millions of batteries.  
 
to further improve, we have in 2020 assessed the key 
priorities for gn and our stakeholders. building on our 
already strong foundation in people excellence, human 
rights protection, and business ethics, we have defined 
three key areas where we can make true impact over the 
next years: climate change, sustainable products and 
packaging, and health. 
• by 2025 we aim to be climate neutral in our own com-
pany activities, whilst also reducing our indirect emis-
sions. 
• by 2025 we will use at least 50% sustainable materials 
in new products, having truly sustainable packaging 
across gn, launching take-back schemes for all relevant 
products and regions, and give more products a second 
life through repair or refurbishment. 
• by 2025 we want to help more than 10 million people 
with hearing loss, continue to raise awareness and 
break down stigmas around hearing loss, and work with 
our foundations as well as an ngo partner on support-
ing unmet hearing needs across the world. 
this report contains more details on these and many other 
ways in which we have supported and will continue to 
support a sustainable society and gn. the report forms 
part of the annual report 2020 for gn store nord a/s and 
constitutes gn’s corporate responsibility report according 
to section 99a in the danish financial statements act.  
 
we welcome any feedback you have on this report or gn’s 
sustainability approach more generally.
charting a course for true impact 
at gn, we are proud of the difference our products make to society and people’s 
lives. our hearing instruments help our users lead better lives, while our audio 
and video solutions help customers collaborate in a climate-friendly way, espe-
cially in a year when being able to collaborate remotely meant staying safe  
management’s commitment 
executive management: peter la cour gormsen, cfo, gn store nord & gn audio, gitte aabo, ceo, gn hearing  
and rené svendsen-tune, ceo, gn store nord & gn audio 
4  sustainability – esg report ⋅ our approach to sustainability 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
2020 marked our 10th year as a committed 
signatory to the un global compact and its 
10 principles of responsible business. these 
principles guide us in everything we do. we 
uphold and protect human rights through-
out our supply chain, ensure our labor prac-
tices meet international standards by pro-
tecting the freedoms and rights of anyone working in our 
supply chain, take responsibility for our environmental foot-
print and actively work to reduce it through our products, and 
uphold the highest standards of business ethics.  
 
leading esg rating agency msci 
acknowledges our strong 
foundation, rating gn with an aa 
in 2020 for our performance 
across all relevant 
sustainability/esg areas, placing us in the upper quartile of 
companies in our industry. 
 
building on this foundation, we address sustainability proac-
tively as an enabler of our strategy. this is first and foremost 
driven by our desire to drive real and lasting impact, by con-
tributing to the un sustainable development goals (sdgs), 
focused on the sdgs that are most relevant to gn (see next 
page). 
 
when deciding on initiatives to increase our impact on these 
sdgs, we have defined three requirements:  
1. we need to ‘do the right thing’, meaning any sustainability 
initiative has to contribute to achieving the sdgs  
2. sustainability initiatives need to align with the expecta-
tions of our valued stakeholders  
3. sustainability initiatives must be feasible from an opera-
tional perspective 
the sdgs will continue to guide us going forward. this year 
we have developed new 2025 sustainability goals to chart the 
course for the next years within the sdgs where we can have 
most impact, translating them into three focus areas: climate 
change, sustainable products and packaging, and health (see 
our 2025 goals on page 21).  
 
due to the nature of our products, gn audio has a bigger en-
vironmental footprint in terms of material use and carbon 
emissions, which is why this division is taking the lead on the 
goals in the environmental area, whereas gn hearing takes 
the lead on the health goals. 
our approach to sustainability  
doing business responsibly has always been core to gn throughout our long his-
tory. in 2020, the un sustainable development goals helped us to proactively 
drive sustainability across our company and chart our course for the future 
 
5  sustainability – esg report ⋅ where gn has lasting impact 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
 
where gn has lasting impact 
we are committed to real impact that benefits society, and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) help us chart our sus-
tainability course. we mapped our value chain against the sdgs in order to establish the six most relevant sdgs for gn. other 
sdgs, such as sdgs 4 and 16, are also relevant to gn to varying degrees. for all sdgs, our guiding principle is to support the 
achievement of these goals where gn has a role to play, either by minimizing our negative impact or by maximizing our posi-
tive impact. 
 
 
 
our commitment to the sustainable development goals 
ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for 
all  
our products make life sound better, which helps our users lead a healthier 
and happier life. in our operations we drive a culture of health and safety and 
avoid negative impact on health by complying with chemical and hazardous 
substance regulations. 
achieve gender equality 
and empower all women 
and girls  
by driving a culture of diversity and inclusion in our recruitment, employee 
development and internal networks, we strive to empower underrepresented 
groups in leadership positions and across gn. 
 
promote sustainable 
economic growth and 
decent work for all 
driven by our commitment to un global compact, we set high internal 
standards and audit suppliers to ensure human and labor rights are protected 
at all times. 
 
promote sustainable 
industrialization and 
foster innovation 
the dynamic industries in which we operate drive us to develop products and 
services on the leading edge of innovation that meet society’s current and fu-
ture needs. 
 
ensure sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns 
we do business the right way. through our policies and due diligence pro-
cesses in, for example, conflict minerals, responsible sourcing, and business 
ethics, we set high standards across our value chain. 
 
take urgent action to 
combat climate change 
and its impacts 
we help our customers make climate-friendly choices through our remote 
collaboration solutions. through our climate goals, we strive to reduce our 
own carbon footprint too. 
 
 
6  sustainability – esg report ⋅ making life sound better 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
as a company with unique hearing, audio, 
and video capabilities, gn is strongly posi-
tioned to improve people’s quality of life and 
enable them to control their own sound-
scape in an increasingly busy and noisy 
world. 
 
since its inauguration 150 years ago, gn has utilized techno-
logical innovation to facilitate and enhance communication 
between people. today, our focus is on helping people with 
hearing loss live life as unimpededly as possible, and on as-
sisting professionals and consumers with state-of-the-art 
headset and video collaboration solutions. 
 
gn’s legacy of producing world-first sound solutions and pio-
neering advancements in hearing technology include:  
1. 6th generation 2.4 ghz technology in hearing aids for di-
rect connectivity;  
2. binaural directionality for leading natural sound;  
3. the world’s first made for apple hearing aid with direct 
stereo sound streaming;  
4. the world’s first cloud-based remote fine-tuning solution, 
now with live video consultation capability; and  
5. the world’s first hearing aid with a microphone and re-
ceiver in the ear. 
helping 9 million people with hearing loss 
our purpose is making life sound better, and we are very 
pleased that our hearing solutions transform the lives of 
around 9 million people with hearing loss around the world. 
people with hearing loss are at the heart of what we do, and 
it is our ambition to reach as many people as possible with 
our life-changing hearing solutions. we work to break down 
stigmas around hearing loss and create awareness of the 
benefits of early treatment, as we develop the world’s most 
advanced hearing aids at the forefront of innovation. 
 
staying safe and healthy by talking and working remotely 
gn’s professional headset, speakerphone and video 
collaboration solutions are engineered to help businesses be 
even more productive by enabling users to better 
concentrate, communicate and collaborate, and to make 
conversation easier. the importance of effective solutions for 
remote offices and hybrid learning environments truly came 
to the fore in 2020, when employees and students in most 
parts of the world were required to work and study from 
home due to the coronavirus. gn’s audio and video solutions 
enabling concentration without distraction and reliable 
remote collaboration proved vital for countless leaders, 
employees, teachers, and students.  
 
 
making life sound better 
gn’s purpose is making life sound better. we believe in the power of sound to 
transform people’s lives, and through our intelligent solutions we enable people 
to hear more, do more and be more than they ever thought possible 
jabra smartsound, gn’s artificial intelligence technology in jabra elite 85h, helps users manage their own soundscapes. 
7  sustainability – esg report ⋅ making life sound better 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
our unique portfolio of medical, professional and consumer 
audio and video solutions – and the deep research and devel-
opment expertise behind this range of products – gives our 
brands unprecedented advantages in the med-tech, heara-
bles and intelligent audio and video field.  
 
a life without limits: eric jackson’s story  
in 2020, resound teamed up with eric jackson, a world 
champion athlete and entrepreneur, to promote the treat-
ment of hearing loss. there are currently around 466 million 
people with disabling hearing loss worldwide, yet hearing loss 
is a vastly undertreated condition. helping people who are 
hard of hearing overcome every type of hearing loss and cele-
brating their unique stories is the driving force at the heart of 
gn.  
 
eric manages degenerative hearing loss stemming from com-
plications of scarlet fever as a child. he has worn hearing aids 
most of his life and has not let hearing loss slow him down. 
eric holds the title of the most successful freestyle kayaker in 
the history of the sport and has coached almost every gold 
medal winner in freestyle kayaking over the past 15 years. 
eric is also a competitive fisherman, entrepreneur and 
founder of his own kayak and watercraft business.  
 
“i am excited to join the resound family because they have a 
long history of helping others through innovation,” eric says. 
“resound is committed to the hearing impaired in a refresh-
ing way, with a unique outreach program that helps those 
who can be helped with hearing devices to get the infor-
mation and motivation to take the first step.” 
 
intelligent solutions to manage your personal soundscape 
gn’s audio solutions help people block out unwanted noise 
and communicate seamlessly, whether in the office, home of-
fice, exercising, or on-the-go.  
 
jabra smartsound, gn’s artificial intelligence technology in 
jabra elite 85h, is just one such innovation which helps users 
manage their own soundscapes, focused and stress-free.  
 
jabra smartsound is based on our partner audeering’s con-
text intelligence technology, which uses real-time acoustic 
scene analysis of environmental sounds. the technology can 
detect more than 6,000 unique sound characteristics and 
uses this to adapt audio output to each specific context. this 
means that when moving from a noisy train station into a 
quiet train carriage, the context intelligence technology will 
take notice and the headphones will automatically adjust the 
audio settings (like anc, hearthrough, etc.) to the changed 
surroundings, creating a seamless user experience.  
 
research collaboration drives better hearing rehabilitation 
to help improve hearing rehabilitation in denmark and be-
yond through evidence-based innovation of clinical guidelines 
and policies, gn contributes to the better hearing rehabilita-
tion project (bear).  
 
the five-year project is progressing steadily and provides val-
uable insights that are being applied in new regulations for 
hearing health care in denmark. most of the activities are 
centered around two universities where a large number of 
phd students acquire a strong competence base in the field 
of audiology. for more information, see bear-hearing.dk  
 
 
 
 
 
eric jackson, a champion freestyle kayaker and resound hearing aid user, does not let hearing loss limit him.  
8  sustainability – esg report ⋅ making life sound better 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
influencer's hairstyles to show off hearing aids  
jessica kellgren-fozard is an english youtuber whose videos 
about vintage lifestyle, fashion, disability and lgbtq+ 
awareness are shared with her almost 800,000 subscribers.  
 
jessica lives with a rare condition affecting her nerves and 
connective tissue called hereditary neuropathy, which has 
resulted in hearing loss. in her teenage years jessica realized 
she was losing her hearing due to nerve damage , which is 
when she started wearing hearing aids, later teaching herself 
to communicate using sign language.  
 
as an adult, jessica has sought to drive awareness of hearing 
loss. for jessica, her disabilities and her hearing loss are a 
part of her, and she sees her videos as a powerful way to 
break down misconceptions and change people’s assump-
tions about what hearing loss and disability mean. through 
her instagram videos such as “hairstyles to show off hearing 
aids” and her first fitting with resound one, where she ex-
periences the joy of birdsong and music from her favorite 
pop artist, jessica breaks down stigmas and illuminates the 
value that hearing aids add to everyday life.  
 
the first deaf person to row across the atlantic ocean  
meet mo o’brien, who truly lives a life without limits. deter-
mined to not let her hearing loss limit her, mo and her team-
mates in the oarsome foursome completed the grueling 
talisker whisky atlantic challenge in january 2020, with the 
sponsorship of resound throughout the race. after 49 days 
at sea, mo sailed into the history books, becoming the first 
deaf person to row across the atlantic ocean. the team is 
recognized in the guinness world records 2021 as the fast-
est ever trio to row across the atlantic. 
 
“i’m so immensely proud that i’ve achieved this extremely 
hard challenge,” said mo, who wears resound enzo q hear-
ing aids. “out on the ocean, it was incredibly helpful that my 
hearing aids enabled me to focus on rowing and communi-
cating, day and night, and i could relax with music, without 
feeling limited by my hearing loss.”  
 
with her super-powered hearing solution, mo was able to 
hear sounds clearly in every direction, get a true sense of 
space, filter out background noise in all weather, and better 
communicate with her teammates.  
 
mo has been awarded “citizen of the year” in her hometown. 
in addition to the achievement of completing the challenge, 
the team has raised an incredible £68,000 for charity. 
 
 
 
2025 goals 
• help 10 million+ people hear more, do more and be more 
by making world-class hearing instruments  
• raise awareness of hearing loss and break down stigmas  
• prevent stress and hearing loss through new health func-
tionalities in our products  
• continue to support unmet hearing health needs through 
donations and capacity-building in local partnerships and 
supported by the gn foundation and beltone hearing 
care foundation 
jessica’s instagram encourages hearing aid users to be proud of 
their aids, by sharing tips on hairstyles to show off hearing aids 
mo and her teammates at the finish line 
9  sustainability – esg report ⋅ doing business the right way 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
human rights in our supply chain 
through our commitment to the un global 
compact, we are committed to eradicating 
human rights issues across our operations 
and supply chain. to ensure human rights 
are safeguarded at all times in all parts of 
our value chain, we have embedded these re-
quirements in our codes of conduct. poten-
tial risks lie mostly in human rights relating 
to working conditions in our supply chain. 
we actively audit for violations through our 
csr supplier questionnaires to all our tier 1 and key tier 2 
suppliers. the audits are based on the un global compact 
principles of responsible business as well as the sa8000 
standard.  
 
in 2020, we conducted 23 csr audits in gn audio and 16 
csr audits in gn hearing. due to the covid-19 pandemic, 
we were limited in our ability to do on-site audits. through 
these audits, we found issues related to working conditions 
and occupational health and safety. all issues and non-com-
pliance cases identified were resolved immediately. in 2021, 
we will continue to set the highest standard of responsibility 
for our suppliers.  
 
conflict minerals due diligence 
our products contain tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold. if 
these minerals originate from mines controlled by military 
groups in conflict regions, such as the democratic republic of 
congo and nine adjacent countries, they are also known as 
conflict minerals. as stipulated in our conflict minerals policy, 
gn does not want to use conflict minerals. in practice this 
means:  
• gn requires its suppliers to exclude conflict minerals from 
gn products  
• gn requires suppliers to comply with our code of conduct  
• gn is using the five-step due diligence guidance laid out 
by oecd for establishing our due diligence process. con-
sequently, gn has put in place an audit program where 
proof of compliance will be required from suppliers that 
conflict minerals are procured only from smelters and re-
finers that have been found to be compliant with the re-
sponsible minerals assurance process (rmap) of the re-
sponsible minerals initiative (rmi).  
by the end of 2020, gn received the re-
quested information from 97% of its rele-
vant suppliers regarding smelters and re-
finers used in their supply chains. we have 
an escalation process in place for non-con-
formity, which can ultimately lead to sup-
pliers being excluded. supported by a third-party provider of 
smelter validation services, ongoing work has been carried 
out during 2020 towards validating and ensuring that the 
identified smelters used by our suppliers are conflict-free. no 
suppliers were excluded in 2020. to strengthen our efforts in 
the area, gn is a member of the responsible minerals initia-
tive.  
 
business ethics  
 
policy management and compliance training  
gn’s commitment to business ethics and compliance with in-
ternational regulations and internal policies is anchored in our 
ethics guide, anti-corruption policies, our supplier codes of 
conduct and other policies and guidelines. these outline the 
fundamental requirements for how gn operates and describe 
the responsibilities and ethical standards expected of all em-
ployees and relevant business partners. 
 
to ensure and document that employees are always familiar 
with our ethics guide and other key policies, relevant 
employees have to electronically sign off on their compliance 
within specific areas and on a regular basis take gn’s e-
learning courses within key topics, such as anti-corruption 
and competition compliance. each year this is supplemented 
with tailored compliance training for selected business units 
or groups of employees. 
 
anti-corruption compliance reviews  
as a regular part of our global anti-corruption compliance 
program, we each year conduct a number of compliance re-
views of selected gn subsidiaries or business units around the 
world. the main objective is to identify and assess relevant 
risk areas and to make sure that adequate controls are in 
place to ensure compliance with applicable legislation and 
gn policies. the selection of subsidiaries or business units for 
compliance reviews is based on an annual country risk assess-
ment consisting of defined risk indicators. 
 
doing business the right way 
we have anchored our commitment to the principles of responsible business in 
our code of conduct and supporting policies. we strive to ensure that human 
rights are safeguarded across our value chain at all times, which includes using no 
conflict minerals in our products. in our dealings with third parties, we set high 
standards and ensure compliance through thorough due diligence 
10  sustainability – esg report ⋅ doing business the right way 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
third-party due diligence  
our aspiration is that all our business partners acknowledge 
our values and share our commitment to conducting business 
in an ethical manner. in 2020, gn took further steps to en-
hance the process for assessing and managing corruption 
risks associated with third-party business partners in selected 
high-risk countries. the evaluation of third parties involves 
self-assessment questionnaires and due diligence screenings 
focusing on the potential reputational and legal risks associ-
ated with the business relationship. 
 
whistleblower system 
gn’s whistleblower hotline, the gn alertline, is available in 27 
countries and 24 languages and is independently managed by 
a third party. the hotline can be used by employees as well as 
external parties to report a concern or perceived misconduct. 
access to reporting and additional details about the hotline 
can be found here: www.gn.com/alertline.  
 
the system is an important tool for ensuring that alleged ille-
gal or unethical conduct is reported and immediately ad-
dressed. all complaints are treated with the needed confiden-
tiality, and gn is committed to dealing with any employee 
who takes action and/or participates in an investigation in a 
fair and respectful manner. this is emphasized in the gn non-
retaliation policy signed by executive management. 
 
in 2020, 14 concerns were reported through the gn whistle-
blower system. the allegations were primarily related to in-
appropriate behavior, harassment/bullying, conflicts of inter-
est, and covid-19 precaution violations. all relevant cases 
have been investigated and appropriate remediating as well 
as disciplinary actions were taken where relevant. 
more details on gn’s compliance efforts and policies can be 
found via www.gn.com/documents.  
 
occupational health and safety 
although the main risks in terms of occupational health and 
safety occur in our manufacturing sites, we proactively work 
to create a safe and healthy workplace at all our sites. to cre-
ate a culture of health and safety, all locations have an occu-
pational health and safety management setup which strives 
to prevent accidents through tools like training, gemba walks 
and committees that evaluate minor accidents and imple-
ment necessary changes. our gn hearing manufacturing site 
in malaysia and our gn audio repair center in xiamen, china 
are iso45001 certified. we will evaluate getting more sites 
certified in 2021.  
 
data privacy  
as stipulated in our privacy policy, we are committed to pro-
tecting personal data belonging to customers, users, and em-
ployees. in 2020, we have continued to refine our implemen-
tation of eu’s general data protection regulation (gdpr). 
the principles of gdpr are continuously implemented in our 
digital systems and processes and our ongoing development. 
by committing specialist data protection resources, we con-
tinuously work to ensure that our processes are gdpr com-
pliant. on top of this, we create awareness internally through 
compulsory e-learning on data protection for relevant em-
ployees. in 2021, we will continue to strengthen data protec-
tion to provide the best consumer experience in a trustwor-
thy and secure way. 
 
11  sustainability – esg report ⋅ engaged and focused people 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
equal opportunity for all  
 
competencies and diversity of the board of 
directors and executive management (§107d) 
gn’s board of directors strives to recruit board 
members with a diverse range of mutually com-
plementary competencies. when the board of 
directors proposes new board members, a cv, as 
well as a thorough description of the candidate’s 
qualifications, will be available to the sharehold-
ers. 
 
gn is a global company and to successfully develop and 
maintain this position in the marketplace, gn is dependent 
upon global expertise and experience. the board of directors 
is a diverse group in terms of global experience, functional 
competencies, and industry background, which ensures that it 
can fulfill its obligations. board members possess expertise 
within med-tech, innovation, product development, 
digitalization, online marketing, and commercialization, as 
well as thorough understanding of financial and human 
resource matters and in-depth knowledge of gn’s business. 
 
the composition of the board of directors is a mix of mem-
bers with executive positions and professional board mem-
bers of both genders and diverse nationalities. this composi-
tion is deemed to provide a good balance between 
knowledge, competencies, experience, and availability for a 
substantial workload. 
 
the board of directors assesses the work and results of the 
executive management on an ongoing basis as an integrated 
and natural part of their regular meetings. in the beginning of 
every year, the board establishes performance plans with spe-
cific kpis for each member of the executive management. 
the board assesses the performance of the executive man-
agement and its execution of the agreed kpis on an ongoing 
basis during the year and formally at the end of the year. the 
board also evaluates on an ongoing basis the structure and 
composition of the executive management in light of compe-
tencies and execution of the company’s strategy. at the year-
end assessment of executive management, the chairman of 
the board is having individual performance evaluation meet-
ings with each member of the executive management. in ad-
dition, the work of the executive management is also as-
sessed as an integrated part of the board’s own annual self-
evaluation, ensuring that the executive management’s work is 
evaluated in accordance with pre-defined criteria. 
 
the annual self-evaluation process covers the contributions 
of each individual board member as well as the achievements 
of the board as a whole and of the board committees. the 
self-evaluation process secures a structured and systematic 
approach for the assessment of the board’s work and is led by 
the chairman of the board. the process also includes an as-
sessment of other management positions that each board 
and executive member holds and assesses potential over-
boarding issues. the company subscribes to the concept of 
“non- overboarding” and, therefore, carefully considers the 
workload and other requirements such other management 
positions may impose on each individual board or executive 
member.  
 
the general conclusions and further detailed information on 
the board’s self-evaluation process are included in the 2020 
annual report and also published on the company’s corpo-
rate website: www.gn.com/boardevaluation. 
 
diversity and talent management (§99b) 
board of directors  
the board of directors firmly believes that diversity strength-
ens any governing body and acknowledges the importance of 
diversity in general, including diversity of gender, nationality, 
and competencies. 
 
at the 2020 annual general meeting, the board of directors 
was expanded from five to seven shareholder-elected mem-
bers. of the current seven members, four are women. already 
in 2018, the board reached its diversity target of 50% of its 
members being women. 
senior management 
gn’s current diversity focus is to advance stronger interna-
tional representation and gender diversity in our senior man-
agement, the global management teams (gmt) in gn audio 
and gn hearing. by the end of 2020, gn hearing’s gmt com-
prised 18% female leaders and 36% non-danes. gn audio’s 
gmt comprised 14 % female leaders and 64% non-danes. 
 
when gn’s diversity policy was established in 2014, women 
filled 14% of the company’s senior management positions. as 
a result of dedicated efforts women by the end of 2020 filled 
21% of senior management positions across the gn group. 
by 2025, we aim to have above 25% women in senior man-
agement positions.  
 
engaged and focused people 
engaged and focused employees are a key enabler of gn’s 2020 and beyond 
strategy. we want to nurture an organization with skilled and highly engaged 
people who will execute on our strategy and win in the market 
12  sustainability – esg report ⋅ engaged and focused people 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
gn will continue to strengthen efforts to build a pipeline of 
future female candidates for senior positions. we have a con-
stant focus to ensure that we attract female candidates for 
both internal job rotations and for new positions. by the end 
of 2020, 43% of the newly appointed members of senior man-
agement were women. 
 
furthermore, to achieve our goals, we ensure that diversity – 
encompassing gender, nationality, competencies, etc. – is an 
integral part of gn’s yearly talent review and succession plan-
ning process, of talent development practices, recruitment 
procedures and leadership development programs.  
 
finally, the wording and visual identity in recruitment activi-
ties on social media and other channels are continuously de-
signed to best attract female candidates and encourage di-
versity. when external recruiters or headhunters are used, gn 
requires that viable female candidates are presented for any 
position. 
 
gn's diversity policy is available here: 
www.gn.com/diversitypolicy 
talent development at all levels  
gn’s hr strategy provides the foundation for successfully 
building strong leadership and talent across the organization 
to meet our objectives.  
 
during 2020, we further strengthened our talent acquisition 
team to increase in-house search capability and complement 
rigorous talent review and succession planning. recent years’ 
increased focus on talent management resulted in several 
internal recruitments for executive management and global 
management team positions. 
 
gn’s strategic leadership development program was 
postponed in 2020 due to covid-19 but will restart in 2021. 
leadership development will be further strengthened with 
programs for new leaders and for virtual leadership.  
 
a job catalogue with clear career paths for employees was 
introduced and a reward framework that enables gn to 
attract and retain the right talent at the right cost will be 
deployed in 2021. gn will actively take steps to address 
mental wellbeing for employees to mitigate negative effects 
from remote working over prolonged time. 
 
finally, a new employee engagement survey tool was 
introduced across the gn group in 2020. going forward, gn 
will seek valuable feedback from all our employees twice a 
year ensuring that we actively can take appropriate actions to 
continously maintain a highly engaged organization. 
 
gn’s 2020 graduates represent a diversity of nationalities, including graduates from far away like india, canada, and portugal. 
13  sustainability – esg report ⋅ safety and support during the pandemic 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
like everywhere else in the world, the covid-19 pandemic 
overshadowed everything else in 2020 for gn and our em-
ployees. at gn, we were impacted early on, when a con-
tract security guard at gn hearing’s manufacturing site in 
china was infected in late january. from that moment on, 
gn has placed the highest priority on ensuring our com-
pany and our employees come through this pandemic 
safely and in good health. from day one, our priority was 
to protect people’s health and livelihoods, and ensure busi-
ness continuity in a world that was gradually locking down. 
safeguarding our employees’ safety, health, and wellbeing  
driven by a global taskforce headed by executive manage-
ment and involving key support functions, gn proactively 
responded to new government requirements in all regions 
throughout the covid-19 pandemic and continues to do 
so. in practice this means gn closes offices and sites 
promptly when required. when it is possible to work on-
site according to government guidelines, gn takes a cau-
tious approach, encouraging working from home for non-
critical staff. where offices and sites are open, we make 
protective equipment and hand sanitizers available, adapt-
ing physical working arrangements, thorough cleaning and 
adjusting canteen processes to minimize the risk of infec-
tion. when infections occur, gn follows strict protocols 
and immediately executes track-and-trace procedures of 
potentially exposed employees.  
 
the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated gn’s focus on of-
fering flexible working arrangements to support a healthy 
work-life balance. going forward, new flexible work habits 
will further strengthen gn’s resilience to events such as 
covid-19, while also facilitating employees’ personal pref-
erences in terms of their work arrangements. 
equipping classrooms for remote learning 
in a time when staying home means staying safe, having 
the right technology is crucial. gn audio’s audio and video 
solutions help people across the world stay connected, 
whether at the home office, remote classroom, or on the 
hospital frontline. in 2020, gn audio solutions equipped 
more than 10,000 classrooms in north america for hybrid 
and remote learning. the combination of jabra speak and 
jabra panacast enables a 180-degree view, including 
everyone in the conversation even if they are spread out 
across the room to maintain social distancing. with a view 
of the entire classroom, every student gets a front row 
experience and can see the teacher's instructional 
environment without missing out on nonverbal cues. for 
lessons that require more in-depth instruction, the 
intelligent zoom feature can automatically adjust the 
frame to focus only on the teacher or whoever is talking at 
the time. 
supporting communities in need  
early in the pandemic, when china was most heavily af-
fected, gn donated dkk 1 million for medical equipment 
for four hospitals in the hubei province in china. at the 
time certain medical equipment was in very short supply, 
but the gn coronavirus taskforce was successful in procur-
ing masks, protective suits and goggles, medical gloves, 
ventilators, hydrocolloid dressing and other medical equip-
ment from the united states, denmark, and china. the 
four hospitals that received the donation from gn were 
huanggang central hospital, the central hospital of wu-
han, wuhan tongji hospital and wuhan no 1 hospital. gn 
continues to assess how we can best assist communities 
beyond our own business with targeted support. see more 
in “company and grassroots support” on page 22. 
safety and support during the 
pandemic 
jabra panacast and jabra speak supported teachers and stu-
dents in remote and hybrid learning environments 
a doctor at a hospital in hubei province receiving medical 
equipment and supplies donated by gn 
14  sustainability – esg report ⋅ calling all innovators 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
we believe that great ideas can come from anywhere in the 
organization. as gn moves towards a more sustainable future 
together as a company, we realize that we have the highest 
potential to reach our goals through the ideas and creativity 
of every person. 
 
in 2020, gn audio launched the first in a series of new 
innovation challenges, enabling anyone across the company 
to fuel our future of innovation with their ideas and vision.  
 
the 2020 challenge took up the theme of sustainability, 
aiming to collectively explore new frontiers in purposeful 
innovation which create sustainable growth and can have real 
impact in the lives of our current and future customers. 
 
the global competition picked the brains of our highly skilled 
employees to find the next big idea that can help us make our 
products, services, and processes more sustainable. as we 
saw from the 155 submissions received, the challenge also 
helped engage gn audio employees on a topic that many are 
passionate about, thereby strengthening a culture of 
sustainability and innovation across our company.  
 
many participants teamed up virtually to bring their solutions 
to life and benefited from coaching from internal experts and 
at collaboration workshops. the most promising ideas were 
pitched to a judging panel, comprised of senior leaders across 
gn audio, in a virtual final. the prize for the winning idea is a 
commitment to try to bring the innovation to life in gn 
audio’s business. in addition, all ideas have been added to a 
sustainability catalogue for future use to help push the 
sustainability agenda across gn. 
calling all innovators 
a new initiative launched in 2020, the gn audio innovation challenge, called on 
gn employees to submit and mature their creative ideas for the sustainable 
future of the company 
employees refining ideas at one of the collaboration workshops during the gn audio innovation challenge 
15  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainable products and packaging 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
 
our products are uniquely designed to improve the quality of 
life. by making life sound better and improving hearing and 
health, our products allow you to hear more, do more and be 
more. our audio and video products support remote 
collaboration for our users as virtual meetings are sustainable 
meetings because they do not require travel. in other words, 
our products have a positive impact on society.  
 
at the same time, there are potential social and 
environmental risks throughout the life cycle of our products, 
from the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, 
distribution, the use phase and to the end of life. to address 
these risks, we strive for our products and packaging to be 
designed, manufactured and distributed in the most 
sustainable way. 
 
safe products 
we make no compromises when it comes to the safety of our 
users. to ensure our products do not contain hazardous and 
harmful materials, in 2020 we complied with the european 
restriction of hazardous substances directive (rohs) and 
registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of 
chemicals (reach) regulations, as well as various regional 
regulations. in 2020, gn hearing conducted biological evalu-
ations of all new products according to iso 10993-1:2018 as 
is required. this means the hearing device is tested to evalu-
ate the interaction with tissue, cells or body fluids of the user. 
 
we continuously monitor regulatory changes and adjust in-
ternal processes accordingly. gn’s hearing products are de-
veloped under a highly regulated quality system complying 
with iso 13485 and fda 21cfr 820 cgmp, as well as other 
national standards.  
 
sustainable products 
in 2020, we continued to integrate sustainability into product 
development processes. supported by our 2025 sustainability 
goals, we consider sustainability when deciding what materi-
als we use to make our products; when we make design 
choices to optimize repairability, disassembly and recycling; 
when we develop solutions to minimize the energy our prod-
ucts consume in the use phase; and when we develop packag-
ing. we also consider sustainability when we build a manufac-
turing and distribution setup aimed at minimizing our carbon 
footprint, and when we develop take-back schemes, repair 
and refurbishment infrastructures to support the transition 
towards a circular economy where our products or their com-
ponents get a second life. our approach is data-driven. we 
use product-level life cycle assessments (lcas) in order to fo-
cus on the dimensions where we can maximize sustainable 
impact, which can differ from product to product. as men-
tioned, gn audio has a bigger environmental footprint re-
lated to products, which is why this division initially takes the 
lead in this area. 
 
through our products we want to contribute to an economy 
based on circular and sustainable use of materials. integrat-
ing sustainability more deeply into our product development 
processes is a priority for gn for the coming years.  
 
 
sustainable products and 
packaging 
jabra elite 85t packaging is 38% smaller and 33% lighter than 
its predecessor, the jabra elite 75t. read more on page 18. 
16  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainable products and packaging 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
six dimensions of sustainable products and 
packaging 
 
1. sustainable materials  
our products contain plastics, metals, fabrics, electronics, 
and batteries. we seek sustainable material alternatives 
that are either recycled or bio-based, focusing initially on 
plastics, metals, and fabrics, for which sustainable 
alternatives are increasingly available. for all sustainable 
materials, we require evidence of suppliers that from a life 
cycle perspective the materials are more environmentally 
friendly than virgin alternatives.  
 
in 2020, we continued investigating a wide range of 
potentially suitable sustainable material candidates to be 
used in future products in gn audio, assessing both recycled 
plastics (pcrs) and bio-based plastics. we use lcas to 
confirm any alternatives are more sustainable than virgin 
plastics.  
 
by 2025, we want to use at least 50% sustainable materials 
in new products. as materials are often blends of virgin and 
either recycled or bio-based content, we measure this as the 
actual sustainable content as part of the total weight of raw 
materials.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. repairability and durability  
our products are of high quality and designed to last. both 
for repairing purposes and easy disassembly in the case of 
recycling, we want to optimize repairability of products 
without compromising robustness and durability.  
 
in 2020, we continued developing repairability requirements 
for all new products in gn audio.  
 
3. energy efficiency  
the amount of energy our products use is a significant part of 
their total environmental footprint. we strive to make our 
products as energy efficient as possible.  
 
in 2020, we continued developing energy efficiency 
requirements for all new products in gn audio.  
 
4. packaging  
to make our packaging more sustainable, we consider filling 
degree, reducing plastic, responsibly sourced material, and 
water-based ink whenever we design a new packaging.  
 
in 2020, we launched two very sustainable packs in gn audio 
(see page 18) and set our long-term sustainable packaging 
goals for both gn’s divisions.  
 
by 2025, we want all our packaging across all gn’s divisions 
to be sustainable, by dramatically reducing the use of plastic, 
minimizing size and weight, and using fsc certified cardboard 
and paper. by dramatically reducing the use of plastic we 
mean we will only use plastic if it is unavoidable (for example 
to ensure product safety) or when using plastic for a specific 
application is more sustainable than the alternatives. 
 
5. recycling and refurbishing  
as a manufacturer of a large number of products, we have a 
role to play in building a more circular and sustainable 
economy, in which products or components of products at 
the end of life are made into new products. in practice, for 
gn that means we want to find ways to get hold of products 
at the end of life, for example through our growing number 
of take-back schemes, and repair, refurbish or recycle them.  
 
distribution of gn's estimated material use by weight 
17  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainable products and packaging 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
in 2020, we launched a new take-back scheme in emea for 
consumer products in gn audio, making it possible for our 
users to return their old products to us so that we can make 
sure they are recycled properly. we have also expanded our 
refurbishment volumes across gn. in gn audio we have 
financed the recycling of 4,864 tons of e-waste, comprising 
electronic devices (3,023 tons), packaging (1,755 tons) and 
batteries (86 tons).  
 
by 2025, we want to give more products a second life 
through repair or refurbishment.  
 
6. production and distribution  
finally, we want to ensure we minimize the environmental 
footprint of producing our product and shipping it to our 
users through our climate strategy, and by working with our 
operational partners on optimization in distribution and clean 
manufacturing. see ‘sustainable operations’ on page 19.  
 
rechargeable batteries in hearing aids is the 
new sustainable standard  
 
the production of batteries requires the extraction of non-
renewable natural resources, whilst incorrectly scrapping 
batteries at the end of life carries the risk of pollution and 
acidification in nature. by offering a rechargeable battery 
option, our resound linx quattro and resound one 
hearing aids offer a sustainable solution. as the rechargeable 
batteries are expected to last the full lifetime of the product, 
we reduce the number of batteries our users require per 
hearing aid to one, preventing the production of a significant 
number of batteries in the process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2025 goals 
• use 50% sustainable materials in all new products  
• 100% sustainable packaging (minimal plastic, small size, 
fsc) 
• expand take-back schemes to all relevant products and re-
gions  
• give more products a second life through repair or refur-
bishment 
 
by offering a rechargeable battery option, our resound one (pictured) and resound linx quattro hearing aids offer a sustainable 
solution 
18  sustainability – esg report ⋅ smart sustainable packaging 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
compact packaging: less is more 
the most straightforward way to make packaging more sus-
tainable is by making it smaller and lighter, meaning we need 
less raw material and ship less air. our new jabra elite 85t 
earbuds packaging sets the new standard in this regard. it is 
38% smaller and 33% lighter than the packaging of its prede-
cessor, the jabra elite 75t. going forward, we will investigate 
ways to not only reduce packaging in size, but also remove 
outer packaging where possible.  
 
fsc certification as our new standard  
in line with our 2025 goal, new packaging 
across gn will also come stamped with an fsc 
certification label, referring to the responsible 
sourcing of all materials obtained from forests. 
this also ensures proper working conditions to 
those working in the forests, as well as no animal displace-
ment. we are also moving to water and soy-based ink as a 
standard in our packaging  
 
dramatically reduce the use of plastic  
in line with our 2025 goal, by dramatically reducing the use of 
plastic we decrease raw material use and improve recyclabil-
ity. dramatically reducing the use of plastic means we will 
only use plastic if it is unavoidable (for example to ensure 
product safety) or when using plastic for a specific application 
is more sustainable than the alternatives.  
 
making an impact  
in november 2020, we were rec-
ognized by the 50th creativity in-
ternational design awards for 
our commitment to sustainable 
packaging solutions. we won 
two bronze awards for the 
evolve2 packaging in the eco-
friendly or sustainable design electronics packaging catego-
ries. the jury stated that the enticing, yet minimalistic design 
of the package was made possible due to a smaller and more 
eco-friendly package.  
 
with our 2025 goal to use truly sustainable packaging across 
gn, going forward, we aim to intensify our focus on sustaina-
bility in packaging for all gn products.  
 
smart sustainable packaging 
in 2020 we took further steps on our journey to making our packaging truly 
sustainable with the sustainable jabra evolve2 and jabra elite 85t packs  
 
19  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainable operations 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
carbon emissions 
the science is clear: climate change is the 
major environmental challenge of our time. 
as a globally operating company, we have a 
role to play in addressing this issue. beyond 
developing solutions that help our users 
choose remote collaboration over carbon 
emitting travel, we also want to significantly 
reduce the negative climate impact of our 
operations. to support this ambition, in 2020 
we completed a mapping of our carbon foot-
print across our full value chain based on 2019 data, using 
the three ‘scopes’ as defined by the greenhouse gas protocol 
to get the full picture. these ‘scopes’ have been developed to 
help companies divide their footprint in terms of the extent 
to which they are directly responsible for the emissions, 
where scope 1 and 2 are within the direct influence of a com-
pany, and scope 3 emissions are more indirecly linked to the 
activities of a company. the table below shows what the 
different scopes cover for gn. the graphic below shows the 
carbon footprint across our value chain. a few key considera-
tions:   
• the carbon footprint relating to our headset and video di-
vision (gn audio) is estimated at around 55% of our total 
footprint, largely due to higher raw materials and distribu-
tion footprints as a result of producing larger and more 
products.  
• the carbon footprint relating to our hearing aid division 
(gn hearing) is estimated at around 45% of the total. it 
has significantly more employees, meaning their share of 
‘company activities’ footprint is larger.  
• we cannot reduce each element of our footprint equally 
without fundamentally changing our company and in our 
climate goals we focus on areas where we have the most 
and fastest impact 
 
 
 
our carbon footprint across our value chain 
 
our scope 1 emissions (est. 644 tonne co2-eq based on 2020 baseline) include fuel consumed by vehicles directly used by 
company personnel and natural gas use at own sites. these emissions are part of ‘company activities’ and ‘manufacturing’ 
in the graphic above. 
 
our scope 2 emissions (est. 11,132 tonne co2-eq based on 2020 baseline), include energy purchases for our owned sites, 
mainly in china, followed by denmark and malaysia. these emissions are part of ‘manufacturing and ‘company activities’  
 
our scope 3 emissions (est. 447,811 tonne co2-eq based on 2019 baseline), include the sourcing of raw materials, (out-
sourced) manufacturing, distribution, company activities (such as r&d, sales & marketing, company air travel), product re-
tail, product use and product end-of-life. these emissions are part of all categories  
sustainable operations 
to ensure we run our company in a way that is environmentally responsible, we 
focus on reducing our carbon footprint. we also continuously strive to minimize 
our energy and water use and reduce waste  
manu-
facturing
raw
materials
company activities: sales & marketing,
research & development etc.
distribution
retail
product
use &
end of life
x%
xx%
17%
5%
38%
16%
22%
4%
20  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainable operations 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
carbon emissions  
the 2019 carbon baseline helps us understand how we can 
most effectively reduce our carbon footprint and serves as a 
baseline for the climate goals we set this year. see page 21 
for more details on our climate goals. 
 
commitment to further climate transparency and goals 
we strive to continuously improve the specificity of our cli-
mate data and report accordingly. in 2021, we will commit to 
further transparency and goal-setting around our climate 
performance.  
 
on scope 3 emissions we will continue to diligently work with 
partners throughout the whole supply chain to reduce emis-
sions, as will other players in our and other industries. 
• in 2021 we will assess how we can align our climate goals 
with the science based targets initiative in order to en-
sure our climate change performance is compatible with 
limiting global warming to 1.5 c. this means we will also 
set specific targets for scope 3 emissions, where, in addi-
tion to our goal to halve the carbon footprint of employee 
air travel, we see most potential to reduce our footprint 
by amongst others optimizing manufacturing and distribu-
tion and through our ambition to make more sustainable 
products and packaging.  
• in 2021, we will become signatory to the taskforce for cli-
mate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) applying the 
recommendations and disclose on this in our 2021 annual 
reporting. 
 
• in 2021, we will report to the carbon disclosure project 
(cdp).  
 
energy efficiency 
in 2020, we have continued our focus on reducing energy 
consumption at our manufacturing facilities. we have imple-
mented energy efficient solutions, such as converting to led 
lights, motion sensors, reusing excess heat, building insula-
tion, solar panels, and conducting training for relevant em-
ployees in energy efficient processes. 
 
reducing waste 
most of gn’s waste is very small in quantity and our 
manufacturing facilities use licensed disposal contractors 
that remove any waste and properly dispose of it. waste may 
include plastic, chemicals, paint, scrap parts, etc. some waste 
is reused (e.g. boxes and plastic) via recycling operations 
managed by external companies. other waste, such as 
electronics, is processed to allow other companies to reclaim 
and reuse materials, where possible. 
 
in europe, we finance recycling through our contributions to 
e-waste collection and recycling infrastructure through local 
recycling partners in accordance with the weee directive. in 
2020, gn audio financed the recycling of 4,864 tons of e-
waste. as we continue to grow, we expect this volume to in-
crease further over the coming years. 
 
water consumption 
water consumption at gn’s manufacturing facilities is very 
limited and primarily used for sanitation purposes. initiatives 
to reduce water consumption include daily monitoring of wa-
ter use, storm water collection and using autostop water.  
for further environmental data, see the appendix 2.  
 
iso 14001  
in 2020, our gn hearing manufacturing 
site in malaysia was iso 14001 certified, 
adding to gn audio’s repair center in china 
which was already certified. in 2021, we 
aim to get more sites certified. 
 
sustainable operations in gn audio  
in 2020, gn audio launched a new operational strategy that 
will not only strengthen the resilience and scalability of gn 
audio’s rapidly growing manufacturing and distribution 
setup, but also significantly reduce our carbon footprint.  
 
the carbon reduction is achieved by increased regional manu-
facturing and packing and optimizing our systems to produce 
to order rather than to stock. this means we transport com-
ponents rather than finished products, and consequently re-
ducing the volumes shipped. it also means we produce less 
waste, since we only build what we actually sell. 
21  sustainability – esg report ⋅ 2025 sustainability goals 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
1. protecting our planet 
the science is clear: climate change is the major environmen-
tal challenge of our time. as a company that operates glob-
ally, we have a role to play in addressing this issue. beyond 
developing solutions that help our users choose remote col-
laboration over carbon-emitting travel, this means we want 
to significantly reduce the negative climate impact of our ac-
tivities. 
2025 goals   
as we are most directly responsible for scope 1 and 2 emis-
sions, we have set an ambitious goal to be climate neutral in 
these scopes by 2025. 
• for scope 1, this means we aim to transition to a clean car 
fleet for our leased company vehicles, replacing petrol 
cars with electric or hybrid cars, and offsetting any re-
maining emissions. 
• for scope 2, this means that over the following years we 
aim to move towards renewable energy for all our owned 
sites, looking for local solutions and partnerships where 
possible and using renewable energy attribute certifica-
tions to offset any remaining emissions.  
• in addition,  we aim to halve the carbon footprint related 
to company air travel by 2025, compared to 2019 - rela-
tive to the scope of the business and assuming our current 
business configuration and operating model - to a large 
degree by maintaining the remote working practices incor-
porated during 2020. remote collaboration is core in gn’s 
product offering, and the pandemic has demonstrated to 
us – and many other companies - that this is feasible and 
even advantageous in many situations  
2. truly sustainable products and packaging  
our products are uniquely designed to improve people’s 
quality of life, improving hearing and health, and supporting 
remote, sustainable collaboration. and we also want to make 
sure that the way our products and packaging are designed, 
manufactured, and treated at the end of their life minimizes 
the need for virgin materials and creates opportunities for 
reuse or recycling of valuable materials. given the size and 
volume of gn audio’s products, our efforts on sustainable 
products are led by gn audio and will subsequently be 
adapted across gn. 
2025 goals 
• by 2025, we aim to use at least 50% sustainable materials 
in new products, for materials for which sustainable alter-
natives exist  
• make all our new packaging truly sustainable, by dramati-
cally reducing the use of plastic, minimizing size and 
weight, and using fsc certified cardboard and paper.  
• expand take-back schemes to all relevant products and re-
gions in gn audio 
• give more products a second life through repair and refur-
bishment in gn audio  
• as an enabler, we aim to use sustainable product develop-
ment requirements for all new products, covering various 
dimensions. see sustainable products and packaging on 
page 15 for more details. 
3. improving health and wellbeing through our products   
we enable people to live better and more fulfilling lives 
through the power of our intelligent hearing, audio, and col-
laboration solutions. our ambition is to improve the health 
and well-being of as many people as we can, with special care 
for unmet needs in the developing world.   
2025 goals   
• by 2025, we want to help more than 10 million people 
hear more, do more and be more by making world-class 
hearing instruments.    
• we want to continue to create awareness of hearing loss 
and break down stigmas 
• we aim to help our users prevent stress and hearing loss 
through new health functionalities in our products   
• we aim to continue to support unmet hearing health 
needs through donations and capacity-building in local 
partnerships and in collaboration with the gn foundation 
and beltone hearing care foundation  
how we aim to get there   
to achieve our goals, we aim to continue to make sustainabil-
ity a key consideration in everything we do, using our existing 
decision-making structures to effectively drive progress. the 
board of directors and executive management make key de-
cisions, while global management teams in the different busi-
ness divisions are responsible for driving progress with sup-
port from global functions.   
 
we aim to continue building a strong culture of sustainability 
across gn by working in partnerships to achieve our goals, 
across our business and with our suppliers, business partners 
and customers. for more detailed information on the goals, 
see the table on page 30.   
2025 sustainability goals 
gn’s 2025 sustainability goals build upon our long commitment to make real and 
lasting impact. inspired by the sustainable development goals, our goals focus 
on three priority areas where we believe we can make the greatest impact 
22  sustainability – esg report ⋅ company and grassroots support 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
beltone hearing care foundation 
the beltone hearing care foundation, a 
501(c)(3) charitable organization established 
by gn’s hearing aid brand beltone in 2014, 
donates hearing instruments to individuals in 
the us and abroad who may otherwise be 
unable to access hearing help due to economic, social and ge-
ographic barriers or natural disasters.  
 
in 2020, the financial downturn caused by covid-19 contrib-
uted to record numbers of applications for hearing aid dona-
tions, and the foundation was proud to donate 550 hearing 
instruments in 2020. since 2014, more than 3,500 hearing 
aids have been donated. the travel restrictions caused by the 
coronavirus halted the foundation’s usual international mis-
sion activities, where hearing aids are donated to communi-
ties in need globally.  
 
 
for much of the year, older and vulnerable hearing aid users 
were prevented from accessing their usual in-clinic hearing 
care, because many clinics were closed for several months 
and older populations were advised to stay home. while 
newer models of hearing aids use rechargeable batteries, 
many current hearing aids are powered by changeable batter-
ies. to ensure hearing aid users did not miss out receiving the 
new hearing aid batteries they would normally get from their 
local hearing care clinic, the beltone hearing care foundation 
offered free hearing aid batteries to anyone in the united 
states who requested them, even if they use other brands of 
hearing aids. in total, the foundation donated more than 
7,500 batteries in 2020.  
 
resound donates usd 1 million worth of hearing aids to 
those affected by 2020 events 
resound gives sound is a us-based product donation pro-
gram dedicated to assisting hearing healthcare professionals 
provide the gift of hearing to those unable to access hearing 
technology. since 2014, resound us has donated more than 
6,400 hearing aids through this program, to help people hear 
more, do more and be more.  
 
in a year filled with adversity, including natural disasters, fi-
nancial pressure, and the pandemic, resound partnered with 
hearing care professionals in the us to donate up to usd 1 
million worth of hearing aids to those in the us with hearing 
loss deeply affected by the events of 2020.  
 
resound received 150 nominations for donations from hear-
ing care professionals across 37 states, and awarded 268 pairs 
of resound one hearing aids to candidates free of charge.  
 
donation of usd 25,000 on behalf of resound customers 
for national association for the deaf 
to recognize hearing care professionals for their tireless work 
this year, as well as in the spirit of the holiday season, 
resound donated usd 25,000 to the national association of 
the deaf (nad), a nonprofit organization promoting the 
rights of deaf and hard of hearing people in the us.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
company and grassroots support 
gn’s core business in hearing and collaboration solutions has a positive impact on 
millions of lives, but we want to reach even more people. furthermore, gn 
employees around the world take initiative to support individuals and 
communities in need through a range of initiatives. in the following pages are 
described a few of these examples from 2020 
“i think these are really amazing. everything 
sounds much clearer when people talk. and 
the app is really helpful if you’re out and 
about” 
heidi baird was one of the more than 550 recipients of beltone 
hearing aids in 2020, made possible through the beltone hearing 
care foundation. she is pictured here with her new york-based 
audiologist craig a. chorney 
23  sustainability – esg report ⋅ company and grassroots support 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
the gift of hearing for people with usher syndrome in the 
uk 
gn hearing uk is proud to support the molly watt trust, a 
uk charity which raises awareness and support for people 
with usher syndrome. usher syndrome is a rare genetic con-
dition that impacts both hearing and sight, and many people 
with usher syndrome are dependent on hearing aids or coch-
lear implants to communicate. gn hearing donates resound 
hearing aids to the trust, for people like claire who live with 
usher syndrome.  
 
claire, a 31-year old mother who was fitted with resound 
linx quattro in 2020, describes the remarkable difference 
resound’s hearing aids have made to her:  
 
hear to aid and hear more academy in africa 
the gn foundation continued our support for long-term 
partner the hear to aid foundation and hear more academy, 
founded by former gn audiologist dr. jenny nesgaard peder-
sen, for hearing care projects and capacity building in africa, 
particularly in zimbabwe. however, many of the pop-up clin-
ics planned for 2020 were unable to run due to the impacts of 
coronavirus.  
 
jabra women’s network raises funds for friends for hope 
this year the jabra women’s network selected friends-for-
hope for its 2020 fundraising drive. friends-for-hope believes 
that changing the environment of disadvantaged children 
through schools offering education, health care, and basic nu-
trition will break generational cycles of illiteracy and poverty.  
 
based in munich, the charity works with barefoot college and 
its founder bunker roy in india, to support children from un-
derprivileged backgrounds to access bridge school, which al-
lows them to attain enough basic knowledge to enter the 
schooling system, regardless of their age. the charity has a 
particular focus on supporting and educating little girls in an 
effort to break the cycle of teen marriage. members of jabra 
women’s network donated usd 3,000 to the charity in 2020.  
 
100 headsets for remote learning 
the us-based wish project works with families who some-
times have trouble providing for their family. many live in 
small apartments which make it difficult for their children to 
attend school remotely without being distracted by all the 
other sounds of a family. because of this, the wish project 
has received an increasing number of requests from families 
for headsets to improve the educational experience for their 
children. in 2020, gn audio north america was happy to as-
sist by donating 100 headsets.  
 
“immediately i heard conversations behind me 
and surround sound and i could accurately pin-
point where sounds were coming from, some-
thing invaluable to someone with tunnel vi-
sion. i felt like a baby hearing familiar sounds 
but in a totally new way, we went outside and 
tested traffic, i could hear cars approaching 
from a distance accurately, again something 
invaluable for me with my guide dog to keep 
us safe when walking the streets.”  
claire was fitted with resound linx quattro hearing aids donated 
by gn hearing to the molly watt trust 
karl bateson, gn audio, center, delivered 100 headsets to the wish 
project to support better educational experiences for children during 
remote learning 
24  sustainability – esg report ⋅ company and grassroots support 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
jabra supports employees giving back on 3rd annual day of 
giving 
each year gn audio north america gives its employees a few 
hours to spend time giving back to the community. while in 
the past we have put together group outreach activities 
across the continent, this year the team participated individu-
ally in their home and local environments. in 2020, these ac-
tivities included making holiday cards with their families for 
local nursing home/veteran hospitals, donating clothes to lo-
cal charities, donating to virtual toys for tots, buying a gift 
for a child in need, and volunteering at a local food bank, shel-
ter or animal shelter. jabra donated usd 25 for every em-
ployee who participated, with a total of usd 4,000 donated 
to st. jude children’s research hospital, feed america, nh 
food bank, and open pantry of greater lowell. 
 
headsets to lend a helping hand 
in addition to the above initiatives, gn audio north america 
was glad to donate jabra and blueparrott headsets to individ-
uals and communities who can substantially benefit from 
gn’s collaboration solutions. whether it is donating headsets 
to teenagers in low socioeconomic neighborhoods in new 
york; a blueparrott b550-xt headset to support motivational 
speaker trenell walker, a former high school football rising 
star who is paralyzed from the neck down; jabra headsets to 
lift the morale of frontline nurses caring for cancer patients; 
or blueparrott b350-xt headsets for search and rescue work-
ers to help with communication during flooding in louisiana, 
the team is eager to lend a helping a hand.  
gn audio north america employees on 
the annual day of giving, supporting 
charities to feed the homeless, donate 
toys to young children from disadvan-
taged backgrounds, collect gifts and 
supplies for families in need, and write 
christmas greetings cards to veterans in 
aged care homes 
25  sustainability – esg report ⋅ sustainability governance 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
sustainability is integrated into how we run our company, 
as a consideration in every decision we make. accordingly, 
we use our existing business processes to drive this 
agenda.  
 
key decisions on sustainability are taken by the board of 
directors and executive management, whilst global 
management teams in the different business divisions are 
responsible for driving progress, supported by global 
functions. sustainability also features consistently in other 
senior management meetings, product boards and 
business reviews.  
 
our policies  
gn has implemented policies covering all key esg areas. 
we continuously add and update policies in line with legis-
lative or strategic changes.  
 
we use our policies in different ways. the anti-corruption 
policy, gifts, travel and entertainment policy, and ethics 
guide (gn’s code of conduct) are internal guidelines that 
all relevant employees have to sign. for the ethics guide, 
relevant employees are required to do an online compli-
ance training and pass a test. all managers are required to 
sign the non-retaliation policy, as part of an internal man-
ager compliance guideline. the codes of conduct, conflict 
minerals policy, modern slavery and supply chain disclo-
sure policies and responsible sourcing policy are require-
ments for relevant suppliers. the csr policy, diversity pol-
icy, flexible work policy, privacy policy, quality policies, 
remuneration policy, and tax policy describe internal 
guidelines and processes that help drive our esg perfor-
mance. 
 
all policies are available on our website gn.com 
policy 
what it covers 
e 
s 
g 
anti-corruption policy 
how gn employees, suppliers, customers, and third-party representatives are ex-
pected to conduct business the right way, in compliance with all applicable anti-
bribery and anti-corruption laws, including (but not limited to) the us foreign cor-
rupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010.  
 
• 
• 
codes of conduct gn 
audio and gn hear-
ing 
how gn employees and suppliers are expected to conduct business with respect to 
human rights, environmental standards, and ethical business practices across the 
value chain. 
• 
• 
• 
conflict minerals pol-
icy 
gn’s requirements and supporting due diligence process to ensure our suppliers do 
not source conflict minerals to be used in our products.  
 
• 
• 
csr policy  
gn’s general approach to csr across all esg areas. 
• 
• 
• 
diversity policy 
gn’s initiatives and tools to drive greater diversity and inclusion across gn. 
 
• 
• 
ethics guide 
the responsibilities and guidelines that describe the ethical standard expected of all 
gn employees, as well as a decision-making process supporting the resolution of 
ethical issues. 
 
• 
• 
flexible work policy 
how gn ensures a healthy work-life balance for employees by allowing for optimi-
zation of work arrangements based on individual circumstances. 
 
• 
 
gifts, travel, and en-
tertainment policy 
guidelines for gifts, travel, and entertainment in gn, within the wider anti-corrup-
tion policy.  
 
 
• 
modern slavery and 
supply chain disclo-
sure 
gn’s policies and procedures to comply with the uk modern slavery act (2015) and 
the california transparency in supply chains act (2012). 
 
• 
• 
non-retaliation policy 
gn’s commitment to ensure that any employee who reports detected or suspected 
misconduct to a senior manager will not suffer any kind of retaliation or repercus-
sion as a result thereof.  
 
• 
• 
privacy policy 
how gn protects personal data belonging to customers, users, and employees. 
 
• 
• 
quality policies gn 
audio and gn hear-
ing 
gn audio and gn hearing’s values and processes that ensure we foster a quality 
culture with the objective to develop, manufacture and market products and ser-
vices with superior quality as perceived by customers.  
• 
• 
• 
remuneration policy 
the guidelines for remuneration, including incentive pay, to members of gn’s regis-
tered management and such members’ remuneration in gn’s wholly-owned subsid-
iaries, as well as remuneration to gn’s board of directors, in accordance with sec-
tion 4 of the recommendations on corporate governance and section 139 of the 
danish companies act. 
 
 
• 
responsible sourcing 
policy gn audio 
gn audio’s application of the ten principles of the un global compact in sourcing. 
• 
• 
• 
tax policy 
how gn pays its taxes in a responsible way 
 
 
• 
sustainability governance 
26  sustainability – esg report ⋅ stakeholder engagement 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
customers  
we proactively engage with customer groups to improve our products. we are keen to understand our 
customers’ and partners’ sustainability requirements and aim to meet these standards.  
 
gn audio’s customers can find support from our after-market customer support teams via our website, 
call centers, social media, and other sales channels. likewise, dedicated teams across all regions pro-
vide comprehensive support to gn hearing’s hearing care professional (hcp) customers and hearing 
aid users.  
 
employees  
employees engage with their direct leader through regular dialogues and twice-yearly professional de-
velopment discussions. organizational information and news are available to all on gn’s intranet, and 
employees can actively engage with gn activities on social media. all employees are encouraged to 
participate in the twice-yearly engagement survey, a tool which enables leaders and employees to ad-
dress strengths as well as areas of improvement. employees can approach their relevant human re-
sources business partner for confidential discussions, as well as report any concerns to a confidential 
whistleblower hotline, gn alertline. gn has robust processes in place to protect the health and safety 
of employees on manufacturing sites. see more in ‘engaged and focused people’ and ‘sustainable op-
erations’.  
 
interest groups  
we support the united nation’s sdgs through our membership of the un global compact.  
 
it is gn’s ambition to provide as many people as possible with access to life-changing hearing care. our 
efforts to raise awareness of hearing loss and the benefits of early treatment include our participation 
in industry groups such as the european hearing instrument manufacturers association (ehima) and 
promotion of the world health organization’s world hearing day. see more about our efforts to ex-
tend the reach of hearing care in ‘community and grassroots support’.  
 
gn audio is a member of the responsible mining initiative, which assists us in ensuring our suppliers do 
not use conflict minerals. see more in ‘sustainable operations’.  
 
investors  
gn discloses esg data in relevant areas through our annual esg report, at our annual general meet-
ing, and where relevant directly on request to esg rating agencies and investors. to ensure our esg 
disclosures always meet investor requirements, we welcome dialogue with our investors on esg topics 
at any time.  
 
regulatory authorities  
gn assesses relevant regulations on an ongoing basis and ensures we comply with all relevant legisla-
tion. we monitor developments and new legislation and proactively respond to information requests 
regarding compliance. see ‘sustainability governance’ for further details.  
 
suppliers  
we expect our suppliers to uphold the same standards that we set for ourselves. we audit our suppli-
ers to ensure they comply with the un guiding principles of responsible business and gn’s supplier 
codes of conduct and policies (see ‘sustainability governance’). we work in partnership with our suppli-
ers to support their compliance, and we also expect that they act to rectify any breaches. see ‘sustain-
able operations’ and ‘sustainable products and packaging’ for further details. 
stakeholder engagement 
gn is committed to open dialogue with all our stakeholders. we proactively com-
municate with our stakeholder groups and respond to requests for information 
about our business. 
27  sustainability – esg report ⋅ about this report 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
our materiality process 
 
to get a full picture of the extent to which different sustainability areas are material to gn and our stakeholders, in 2020 we 
scored a wide range of topics against their relevance for different stakeholders and frameworks, and aggregated the insights to 
set prioritization for our 2025 goals and our broader sustainability strategy. we do not see prioritization based on materiality 
assessments as a static process and continuously adjust our priorities and actions based on changing legislative, stakeholder 
preferences and developments in sustainability/esg frameworks. below is an overview of the way we consult different stake-
holders and frameworks on materiality:  
 
legislation 
we map existing and expected sustainability legislation in all regions in which we operate on an 
ongoing basis, in order to ensure we work proactively in areas of increasing legislation, such as 
low-voc paint requirements in china and extended producer responsibility legislation in the eu 
customers 
we are in continuous dialogue with customers to understand their priorities in terms of sustaina-
bility for our products 
investors 
we are in continuous dialogue with investors to understand their priorities in terms of 
sustainability/esg for gn 
employees 
sustainability features regularly on a wide range of internal discussion and decision platforms 
which helped us map sustainability preferences of our employees. the gn audio sustainability-
themed innovation challenge (see page 14) is an example on how we sourced our employees’ 
knowledge and preferences on sustainability 
reporting frameworks 
we considered guidance on industry materiality for all industries in which gn is active from 
amongst others gri and sasb  
esg rating agencies 
we considered guidance on industry materiality for all industries in which gn is active from 
amongst others gri and sasb 
sustainable develop-
ment goals (sdgs) 
as described on page 5, we mapped our value chain against the sdgs and the underlying targets 
to establish societal risks and opportunities for all parts of our value chain 
 
about this report 
this report is produced in compliance with articles 99a, 99b and 107d of the 
danish financial statements act 
article 99a 
sustainability definition 
see "our approach to sustainability" on page 4 
business model 
see “business model” on page 33 
governance 
see “sustainability governance” on page 25 
due diligence processes 
this is covered across different chapters on pages 6-24 
risks 
this is covered across different chapters on pages 6-24 
kpis 
see appendices on pages 29-34 
results 
this is covered across different chapters on pages 6-24 
article 99b 
gender diversity target for board of directors 
see “engaged and focused people” on pages 11-12 
gender diversity policy and actions in senior management 
see “engaged and focused people” on pages 11-12 
article 107d 
 
policies and actions to promote diversity for the board of 
directors and executive management 
see “engaged and focused people” on pages 11-12 
 
28  sustainability – esg report ⋅ about this report 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
 
 
sustainability, responsibility, csr or esg? 
the terminology to describe non-financial performance differs widely depending on who you ask and where they are based.  
 
as this report is written for all interested stakeholders across the world, we use the terms sustainability, responsibility, corpo-
rate social responsibility (csr) and environmental, social and governance (esg) interchangeably, depending on the context. 
but they all refer to the same: how gn addresses environmental, social or governance related risks and opportunities, both in 
relation to our business and to society as a whole, in order to maximize our positive impact on the world.  
 
 
value chain 
main risks 
main opportunities 
relevant sdgs 
raw material sourcing 
virgin and fossil material 
use 
conflict minerals 
sustainable product design 
8 and 12 
suppliers 
labor rights and conditions   
8 and 12 
company activities (r&d, 
sales and marketing, cor-
porate functions) 
business ethics 
innovative products 
diversity and inclusion in 
the workforce 
5, 9 and 12 
manufacturing 
carbon emissions 
waste 
labor rights and conditions 
 
8, 12 and 13 
distribution 
carbon emissions 
 
13 
product use 
carbon emissions 
health and well-being 
carbon reduction through 
(video) conferencing 
3 and 13 
product end-of-life 
waste 
recycling, circular business 
models 
12 
 
 
 
 
29  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 1: gn’s 2025 sustainability goals 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
climate change 
goals 
why it is im-
portant 
how we measure it 
baseline 
key actions to achieve goal (not 
exhaustive) 
climate neutral in scopes 
1+2 emissions 
 
the science is 
clear: climate 
change is the 
major envi-
ronmental 
challenge of 
our time. as a 
company 
that operates 
globally, we 
have a role to 
play in ad-
dressing this 
issue. 
co2e emissions in 
scope 1+2, as de-
fined by the ghg 
protocol 
11,776 tons of 
co2e (2020)  
see actions below 
renewable energy for all 
owned sites 
total co2e emis-
sions related to en-
ergy use in owned 
sites 
11,132 tons of 
co2e (2020) 
• renewable energy partner-
ships, including re generation on 
site where relevant 
• purchase energy attributable 
certificates 
switching to clean cars 
total co2e emis-
sions related to com-
pany cars 
644 tons of co2e 
(2020)  
• adjust car policy and processes 
to switch to zero or low emis-
sions vehicles 
• purchase carbon offsetting cer-
tificates for remaining emissions 
  
reduce our scope 3 emis-
sions 
total co2e emis-
sions in scope 3, as 
defined by the ghg 
protocol 
447,811 tons of 
co2e (2019) 
see actions below 
halving carbon emissions 
from company air travel 
total co2e emis-
sions related to com-
pany air travel, rela-
tive to the number of 
employees 
16,399 tons of 
co2e (total),  
2.5 tons co2e per 
employee (2019) 
• integrate target into internal air 
travel budgets and limits 
• purchase carbon offsetting cer-
tificates for remaining emissions 
driving sustainability into 
our manufacturing and 
distribution  
total co2e emis-
sions related to man-
ufacturing and distri-
bution 
71,567 tons of 
co2e (2019) 
• roll out new operations strat-
egy in gn audio that includes 
more local assembly and packag-
ing 
• develop further ways to reduce 
manufacturing and distribution 
footprint, such as renewable en-
ergy for suppliers, reducing air 
freight and further operational 
optimizations 
 
helping our customers 
make more sustainable 
choices 
 
 
• continue developing solutions 
that allow for remote collabora-
tion 
 
 
appendix 1: gn’s 2025 
sustainability goals  
30  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 1: gn’s 2025 sustainability goals 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
sustainable products and packaging1 
goals 
why it is im-
portant 
how we measure it 
baseline 
key actions to achieve goal (not 
exhaustive) 
use at least 50% 
sustainable materials in 
all new products  
 
 
we can make a 
real impact by 
making our 
products and 
packaging 
more sustaina-
ble, whilst we 
aim to also 
meet customer 
and regulatory 
pressure for 
sustainability in 
products and 
packaging 
% of either recycled 
or bio-based content 
(taking into account 
that materials are of-
ten a mixture of sus-
tainable and non-
sustainable mate-
rial), as a % of total 
weight of materials 
for which sustainable 
alternatives exist (i.e. 
plastics, metals, fab-
rics) 
0% 
• execute tech studies to iden-
tify suitable sustainable materi-
als 
• integrate sustainable 
materials into products 
sustainable packaging 
(zero or minimal plastic, 
small size, fsc)2 
# of packs that use 
zero or minimal plas-
tic, are minimal size 
and fsc certified  
baseline is the fol-
lowing products: 
jabra evolve2 
(partly), jabra elite 
85t (fully) 
• integrate goals into packaging 
projects across gn 
expand take-back 
schemes to all relevant3 
products and regions  
# of takeback 
schemes per product 
family and region in 
gn audio 
gn audio has 
take-back schemes 
in na and emea 
for selected prod-
ucts 
• launch additional take-back 
schemes 
• expand existing take-back 
schemes to increase return rates 
and improve recycling 
give more products a 
second life through re-
pair and refurbishment  
# of products that 
are either recycled or 
repaired in gn audio 
baseline of prod-
ucts repaired or re-
furbished in gn 
audio not dis-
closed for compet-
itive reasons 
• improve repairability in prod-
uct development, as part of sus-
tainable product development 
requirements in gn audio 
• expand repairability capabili-
ties and refurbishment partner-
ships 
 
 
 
 
1 gn audio has a bigger environmental footprint related to products, which is why this division initially takes the lead in this area. gn hearing 
will benefit from insights 
2 by dramatically reducing the use of plastic we mean we will only use plastic if it is unavoidable (for example to ensure product safety) or 
when using plastic for a specific application is more sustainable than alternatives. 
3 a take-back scheme is relevant if it leads to a positive sustainability effect, where the environmental benefit of saving on raw materials and 
manufacturing is higher than the environmental footprint of return-distribution. gn audio only. 
31  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 1: gn’s 2025 sustainability goals 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
health 
goals 
why it is im-
portant 
how we measure it 
baseline 
key actions to achieve goal (not 
exhaustive) 
help 10 million+ people 
hear more, do more 
and be more   
 
 
leverage our 
core strengths 
to make a real 
difference in 
people's lives 
internal analysis 
based on among oth-
ers who, world 
bank, ehima and in-
ternal data on includ-
ing global hearing in-
strument volumes, 
hearing instrument 
lifetime and bilateral 
application factor 
approx. 9 million 
people helped 
(2019) 
• execute gn hearing strategy 
to drive growth 
continue to create 
awareness of hearing 
loss and break down 
stigmas  
 
only ~17% of peo-
ple who could ben-
efit from hearing 
aids use them 
(who). peo-
ple wait on aver-
age 10 years be-
fore seeking hear-
ing treatment 
(shield, b. 2019) 
  
• execute gn hearing strategy 
to create greater awareness and 
break down stigmas 
prevent stress and 
hearing loss through 
new health functionali-
ties in our products  
 
jabra smart-
sound, active 
noise cancelation 
 
• assess viability and user pref-
erences of new health function-
alities and integrate into prod-
ucts 
continue to support un-
met hearing health 
needs through dona-
tions and capacity-
building in local part-
nerships and supported 
by the gn foundation 
and beltone hearing 
care foundation  
 
see giving back on 
page 23 
• strengthen foundations work 
in product donations and capac-
ity building 
• develop ngo partnership 
based around hearing health 
through prevention or product 
donation 
 
32  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 2: esg data 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
dimension 
units 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020 
2025 goal 
environmental 
carbon emissions in scope 1 
tons co2e 
na 
na 
695 
644 
0 
carbon emissions in scope 2 
tons co2e 
na 
na 
11,506 
11,132 
0 
carbon emissions in scope 3 
tons co2e 
na 
na 
447,811 
1 
see page 21 
energy use in our owned manufactur-
ing sites2 
kwh per prod-
uct/component 
produced 
1.22 
1.14 
1.15 
1.19 
 
waste in our owned manufacturing 
sites2 
kg per prod-
uct/component 
produced 
0.034 
0.033 
0.037 
0.035 
water use in our owned manufactur-
ing sites3 
m3 per em-
ployee 
18.5 
18.9 
18.5 
15.8 
e-waste recycling financed (total)4 
tons   
2,548 
2,788 
3,671 
4,864 
continuous  
improvement 
social 
 
 
 
 
 
 
supplier csr audits 
# audits of tier 
1 and key tier 2 
suppliers 
 35 
39 
49 
395 
 
conflict minerals reporting templates 
received  
% cmrts re-
ceived 
98% 
98% 
98% 
97% 
100% 
governance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
women in board of directors 
% women 
33% 
50% 
40% 
57% 
>40% for un-
derrepresented 
gender 
women in senior management 
 
17% 
20% 
20% 
21% 
>25% 
whistleblower cases 
number of 
cases (% re-
solved by end of 
year) 
8 
(100%) 
10 
(100%) 
15 
(100%) 
14 
(100%) 
na6 
(100%) 
 
1 we completed an assessment of our scope 3 emissions in 2020 based on 2019 data. we will reassess our scope 3 footprint in 
2021 
2 as most energy use and waste is related to component or product manufacturing, this is measured against the number of 
components or products produced at our own sites in china, malaysia, us and uk. gn audio is not included, as manufacturing 
is outsourced 
3 as most water use is related to sanitary facilities, we measure this against the number of employees at our own sites in china, 
malaysia, us and uk. gn audio is not included, as manufacturing is outsourced. 
4 this covers countries in which we are required to finance electronic waste recycling through the weee directive in the eu. 
includes products, batteries, and packaging (both plastic and cardboard), gn audio only. 
5 impacted by covid-19 
6 the number of whistleblower cases should show a stable development without major yearly deviations, relative to the com-
pany’s number of employees, and reflecting the geographies in which the company operates. accordingly, a specific target 
number cannot be set. 
appendix 2: esg data 
because of the nature of gn’s business the company’s negative esg impact is rel-
atively limited. that said, we are commited to the global esg agenda and have 
defined climate change, sustainable products and packaging, and health as the 
three key areas where we can make true impact 
33  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 3: business model 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
the positive impact gn creates for society lies first and 
foremost in the improved hearing health, well-being and 
productivity experienced by the users of our products. we 
strive to maximize this impact by developing and producing 
superior products and services. beyond that, we create 
decent employment for our own 6,525 employees and many 
more across our global supply chain. 
furthermore, we create economic benefits in the form of 
taxes and shareholder value. we drive innovation in our 
industries and our audio products can also help customers 
reduce their carbon footprint by reducing travel. we strive to 
be a responsible business in terms of mitigating the 
environmental, social and governance risks we could 
contribute to through our products and operations.  
appendix 3: business model  
gn’s lean and agile business model positions the group strongly to seize multiple 
business opportunities driven by global megatrends whilst creating true and 
sustainable value for our stakeholders and society as a whole  
 
attractive megatrends  
 
a growing and aging world popula-
tion as well as personal communica-
tion trends offer opportunities for in-
telligent audio solutions in industries 
with currently low penetration rates. 
 
 
 
innovation leadership 
 
gn’s sound technologies and experi-
ence are directed at consistently de-
veloping unmatched user benefits. 
our strict innovation focus has en-
sured multiple industry firsts. 
 
 
strong partnerships 
 
strong track record of strategic part-
nerships with leading channels, cus-
tomers, and adjacent industry lead-
ers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
synergistic m&a 
 
merger and acquisition activities to 
support channel access, commercial 
excellence, and technology leader-
ship as well as to streamline activi-
ties. 
 
execution excellence 
 
flawless end-to-end execution from 
customer insights via research and 
development, quality manufacturing, 
efficient logistics, marketing, chan-
nel, and sales. 
 
agile and asset light 
 
a lean business model, with no 
owned retail, ensures a strong posi-
tion in relation to future distribution 
trends and an asset light business 
model. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sustainable business 
 
throughout gn’s long and rich his-
tory, we have strongly anchored re-
sponsible business practices. our sus-
tainability framework allows us to 
address environmental, social and 
governance topics proactively to en-
sure real and lasting positive impact. 
 
 
customer experience 
 
utilizing synergies derived from gn’s 
audio and hearing technologies and 
expertise, gn is able to significantly 
improve and personalize customers’ 
hearing and listening experiences in 
audio and hearing products. 
 
 
retain and attract talent 
 
driving an organization with highly 
skilled and engaged people, ensuring 
a level playing field with equal oppor-
tunity for all, ensuring people and 
talent development at all levels, and 
ensuring leadership the gn way 
where we actively listen, challenge, 
and transform. 
34  sustainability – esg report ⋅ appendix 3: business model 
contents  
 
 
gn store nord a/s –2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gn store nord a/s 
lautrupbjerg 7 
dk-2750 ballerup 
denmark 
 
co. reg. no 24257843 
 
+45 45 75 00 00 
info@gn.com 
gn.com 
© 2021 gn store nord a/s. all rights reserved. jabra and blueparrott are trademarks of gn audio a/s. resound, interton 
and falcom are trademarks of gn hearing a/s. beltone is a trademark of gn hearing care corporation. all other 
trademarks and logos included herein are the property of their respective owners. 
