sustainability
report 2020
the stigmatization of people with depression infiltrates 
schools, workplaces and even families. in the latest 
issue of lundbeck magazine, you can meet a number  
of brave people who have now chosen to speak out 
about their disease and how it impacts their life. one  
of them is 52-year-old ruth joseph.
depression entered ruth’s life back when she was a 
stay-at-home mother with two small boys. she was 
“ i would never 
dare to share my 
history for fear of 
appearing weak.”
visit the lundbeck website 
www.lundbeck.com
photography jens honoré (cover, p.2, 17),  
tuala hjarnø (p.4, 10), anera (p.10), lundbeck (p.16).
design make®
february 2021
about lundbeck
we are tirelessly dedicated to restoring brain health, so every person can 
be their best. to fulfill this purpose, lundbeck is engaged in the research, 
development, manufacturing and commercialization of pharmaceuticals 
across the world. for more than 70 years, lundbeck has been at the 
forefront of neuroscience research.
with our unique position as specialists in brain disease, we want to raise 
disease awareness and challenge the international agenda for broader 
acceptance of patients and increased opportunities for better treatment.
lundbeck is a global pharmaceutical 
company specialized in brain diseases
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
2
living what she describes today as “a dream life” 
– and yet she felt ashamed. she felt ashamed that 
she wasn’t happy.
true happiness and fake happiness can look like each 
other, but they lie worlds apart. ruth has known 
both and she knows a great deal about keeping your 
vulnerability hidden. “i would never dare to share my 
history for fear of appearing weak,” ruth says.
ruth joseph
usa
ongoing commitment
lundbeck is a participant in the united nations global compact 
which we became a signatory to in september 2009. we would like 
to express our continued support for the global compact and hereby 
renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 
3
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
1
3
contents
new science-based climate target 
for entire value chain approved
global diversity & inclusion forum 
recommendations from employees adopted
launched partnership with ihp  
on product donations
achieved “esg industry top rated”  
by sustainalytics
68% recycling of solvents  
in production
ranked #4 globally on the net promoter score 
measuring patient groups’ willingness to work with  
and recommend the company
4 
letter from the ceo 
5
our approach to sustainability
6
efforts and aspirations
8 
global health and wellbeing 
11
climate action and circularity
 
13
business ethics
 
15
inclusive and safe working conditions 
18 
introduction to esg factbook 
19
environment
 
22
social
 
24
governance
26
reporting on targets
27
tcfd reference index
28
accounting principles
30
assurance report
deborah dunsire
president and ceo of lundbeck
2020 highlights
impact
introduction
factbook
2
factbook
impact
introduction
1
4
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
letter from the ceo
committed to increasing impact
in 2020, the pandemic placed unparalleled demands on our 
healthcare systems, and has also had a tremendous impact 
on mental health around the world. it has in many ways 
been a year to remind us of the importance and challenges 
of good health and wellbeing for all.
we are delighted to share with you this report, which 
demonstrates how we are making progress towards our 
2030 sustainability aspirations, even in the face of the 
extraordinary challenges we confronted during 2020.
as a pharmaceutical company, restoring brain health so 
every person can be their best is our guiding purpose. 
research and development of medical treatments is 
our biggest contribution to society. over and above 
this, we believe we have a responsibility to help 
patients access these life-altering treatments. we are 
delighted to introduce a new initiative in our access to 
brain health strategy – the product donation 
partnership with ihp, which will benefit some very 
vulnerable families.
with this sustainability report, we announce a new 
science-based climate target. it has been rewarding to 
watch our carbon emissions go down, driven by our 
long-term action plan initiated over a decade ago. 
reports back from our production and research sites 
around the world demonstrate the tremendous 
progress we continue to make in pursuing these goals.
deborah dunsire
president and ceo of lundbeck
4
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
with our new, ambitious climate target, our executive 
management team will expand the work we do across 
our value chain, in collaboration with all our partners 
and suppliers and we will ramp up our employee 
engagement on climate action.
we are also reporting on activities to train and support 
our employees to do the right thing as a responsible 
business. at lundbeck, we are grounded in our belief 
that we must act with integrity and respect in 
everything we do. it is the best business decision every 
time. over the years – and again in 2020 – our 
stakeholders have rewarded us with strong trust ratings.
last year we introduced a company-wide diversity & 
inclusion forum. as much as we need a global and 
cross-functional working organization, we also need a 
diverse and inclusive one too. it has been demonstrated 
time and again that innovation and creative solutions 
to complex problems are better driven by diverse 
teams. diversity is not only the right thing to promote 
from a social aspect or a community aspect, but it is 
the right thing to do for business. only when every 
person can bring their full experience to bear on the 
challenges we face in discovering new medicines, will 
we succeed. as a company, we continue to stand 
against all forms of discrimination and stand for 
creating a workplace where every person is respected.
at lundbeck, we believe that we can only succeed if 
we can build our business in a sustainable way. we are 
proud of our progress and hope that you will find this 
sustainability report inspiring!
“ diversity is not only the 
right thing to promote 
from a social aspect or a 
community aspect, but it 
is the right thing to do for 
business”
factbook
impact
introduction
1
5
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
our approach to sustainability
this is sustainability at lundbeck
the united nations sustainable development goals are 
the blueprint for achieving a better and more sustainable 
future for all. addressing the world's global challenges is a 
shared responsibility. together with our partners, we focus 
our efforts where we can make the most significant impact.
contributing to society
at lundbeck, our most important contribution to 
society is easing the global burden of the millions of 
people living with brain diseases. and we are one of 
the few companies in the world that focus exclusively 
on this unmet need.
brain health 
our treatments reach more than 7 million people 
everyday living with brain diseases worldwide. we are 
relentless in our focus to help even more.
as part of our commitment to sustainability, we have 
launched our access to brain health strategy. the 
strategy builds on four long-term aspirations to make 
innovative treatment available through r&d, promote 
accessibility, enhance cultural acceptability and pro-
vide safe and efficacious medical products.
our aspiration is to enhance access to brain health for 
the most vulnerable. we aim to accelerate our efforts 
through strategic partnerships and collaboration with 
leading experts.
in many parts of the world, brain disease comes with 
a high degree of social stigma. to advance a more 
inclusive world, we work with international and local 
advocacy groups to promote disease awareness, 
combat stigma and empower people living with  
brain diseases.
climate action
science and innovation are at the heart of what we 
do. it enables us to foster groundbreaking discoveries 
within neuroscience. but it also plays a pivotal role in 
helping us, as a company, prioritize climate action.
we are leaders in climate action, and we measure 
everything we do with the most ambitious reduction 
targets set by science. throughout our value chain, we 
continue to reduce our carbon footprint, becoming 
more circular and increasing recycling.
ethics, trust and transparency
trust is essential. to us, and to our industry. and as a 
business partner, we promote integrity in the pharma-
ceutical industry. 
we take prudent actions to remain responsible. we 
require our employees and busi ness partners to act 
with respect and integrity in everything they do, to 
maintain trust and safeguard our license to operate.
tirelessly dedicated to restoring brain health,  
so every person can be their best
partnering 
for impact
using our influence to promote change
pursuing a 
zero-emissions 
future
dedicated to 
restoring 
brain health
at the same time, we are actively promoting inclusion, 
equality and a safe working environment for lundbeck 
employees worldwide.
our commitment
globally, the number of people living with brain 
diseases is growing. we will remain steadfast in our 
commitment to chase the scientific breakthroughs 
that enable us to deliver hope. we will advance inno-
vation in balance and not at the cost of nature – and 
we will continue to set ambitious sustainability targets 
while delivering life-changing innovation to the people 
who need it.
the model below illustrates our contribution to the 
sustainable development goals.
factbook
impact
introduction
1
6
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
efforts and aspirations
in early 2020, lundbeck launched a new sustainability 
strategy. the sustainability strategy aims to ensure 
that our business activities are conducted in a way 
that supports seven sustainable development goals 
(sdgs) and mitigates significant risks and adverse 
impacts.
our sustainability strategy
our aspirations 
for 2030
our selected 
sustainable 
development 
goals (sdgs)
•  leverage our specialist 
knowledge to address the 
burden of brain diseases 
and continue to make 
medicine available
•  promote accessibility 
of our medicines by 
addressing discriminatory, 
physical, economical and 
informational barriers
•  improve mental health 
parity, reduce stigma, 
support national suicide 
prevention efforts 
and enhance cultural 
acceptability of brain 
diseases
•  provide high-quality 
medicinal products, 
safeguard patient safety 
and combat counterfeit 
medicine
•  deliver on the “business 
ambition for 1.5°c” pledge 
•  transition electricity supply 
to renewable sources 
•  manage two-thirds of value 
chain carbon emissions 
equally as effective as 
carbon emissions from 
operations
•  minimize key business 
partners’ carbon emissions 
reflected in relevant 
agreements
•  be recognized by 
employees and externally 
as a workplace with an 
inclusive culture that offers 
equal opportunities for all 
•  influence the public debate 
on equality and inclusion 
by setting ambitious 
targets, enhancing 
data transparency and 
communicating actively
•  request key business 
partners to promote 
diversity and prevent 
discrimination in all its 
forms
•  be recognized as a 
workplace that fosters 
physical and mental 
wellbeing
•  show leadership to 
promote mental health 
with preventive actions at 
our workplaces globally
•  achieve a lost time accident 
frequency below 3
•  establish manufacturing 
processes based on circular 
economy principles to limit 
materials use, waste and 
carbon emissions 
•  expand application of 
circular economy principles 
to key partners
•  use detailed 
knowledge about active 
pharmaceutical ingredients 
to minimize environmental 
impact
•  promote business ethics 
including human and 
labor rights through 
strengthened collaboration 
with key business partners
•  demonstrate that the code 
of conduct compliance 
program and organization 
works, i.e. sustains an 
ethical culture and prevents 
any form of corruption
•  protect the integrity of the 
healthcare professionals 
we work with and use 
transparency as an asset
every year, executive management evaluates our 
sustainability performance and establishes targets 
for the coming year to contribute to solving societal 
challenges where we can and to enhance our risk 
mitigation. you can read about the progress on these 
targets throughout this report.
we have set ourselves a number of 2030 aspirations 
to guide our sustainability efforts. you can see them 
below.
we invite all our stakeholders to hold us accountable 
to our aspirations and to join us in collaborative efforts 
for making real impact.
7
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
how lundbeck  
makes an impact
our most material sustainability issues are reflected in the sustainable 
development goals (sdgs) that we significantly impact. our biggest 
contribution to sustainable development – and where we bring most 
value to the communities we serve – is our medical treatments and the 
good health and wellbeing they bring to people. we also take a leading 
role in climate action and promote an ethical, safe and inclusive culture 
in our operation and our value chain.
in this section
8 
global health and wellbeing 
11
climate action and circularity
 
13
business ethics
 
15
inclusive and safe working conditions 
13
sustaining an ethical culture
for us, responsible business conduct is an integral part of our 
sustainability work. it helps us make decisions that create 
a positive impact and steers us toward making choices that 
contribute to the common good of all – particularly patients.
2
factbook
impact
introduction
2
8
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
global health and wellbeing
committed to innovation and availability
more than 790 million people are living with a mental 
health disorder.1 that is roughly 10% of the world's 
population. the unmet need for new treatments 
within psychiatric and neurological disorders remains 
significant. because of the high-risk nature of the 
work, many companies have reduced investments and 
abandoned research in the field. in the past decade, 
the number of psychopharmacological drugs research 
programs in larger drug firms has shrunk by 70%.2
at lundbeck, we have increased our focus and research 
in the field. with our expand and invest to grow 
strategy, we will accelerate our efforts and the like-
lihood of succeeding through strategic partnerships 
and collaboration with leading experts. why? because 
people living with brain diseases depend on it. 
covid-19 has brought attention to the inequalities in access 
to healthcare that persist both within and among countries. 
it has added to ample evidence that income and social 
inequalities have substantial adverse health outcomes, 
regardless of a country’s income level. notably, there is 
a strong link between poor mental health and economic 
hardship, which has been felt by many in communities 
everywhere during this pandemic.
scientific grants
the lundbeck foundation awarded scientific grants of eur 60m for 
biomedical research focused on the brain in 2020.3
60m
world mental health day 2020
in support of world mental health day in october 2020, we engaged all  
our offices in awareness efforts and published a lundbeck position paper  
to advocate for mental health for all.
trusted by patients
this year, lundbeck ranked #4 of 48 global pharma companies on the net 
promoter score measuring patients’ willingness to work with and recommend us.4
access to brain health for all
3 the lundbeck foundation is a separate entity and is lundbeck’s largest shareholder, 
holding 69% of the share capital and voting rights.
4 based on feedback from 1,850 patient groups in 95 countries, 48 pharma companies 
were surveyed for their corporate reputation based on 12 different indicators.
better tools for tougher challenges 
to combat the rapidly escalating mental health crisis 
emerging from the covid-19 pandemic, lundbeck 
north america and mental health america (mha) 
teamed up to launch an initiative that will create a u.s. 
mental health dashboard. the initiative will analyze 
mental health screening data sets to generate impor-
tant population-based insights. real-time analysis 
will allow the nation to recognize and react quickly to 
mental health trends exacerbated by the pandemic 
and address disparities faced by diverse populations.
this sophisticated new tool can be used to help map 
clusters of people with mental health concerns, recog-
nize factors that increase risk for poor mental health 
outcomes, direct appropriate allocation of resourc-
es, and identify what interventions would be most 
1 the lancet (2018), gbd 2017 disease and injury incidence and 
prevalence collaborators.
2 https://www.biopharmadive.com/news/pharma-neurosci-
ence-retreat-return-brain-drugs/570250/
eur
factbook
impact
introduction
2
9
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
global health and wellbeing
effective in addressing the mental health impacts of 
covid-19 and future high-impact events such as natu-
ral disasters and community violence.
addressing accessibility
we have a responsibility not just to develop treat-
ments and cures but also to help patients access 
them.5 in 2020, lundbeck established our access 
to brain health strategy that goes beyond making 
safe and efficacious medicine available. the strategy 
centers on brain health accessibility for the most 
vulnerable. 
in the coming years, we will take additional actions to 
address discriminatory, physical, economic and infor-
mational barriers to make safe and efficacious brain 
disease treatments more accessible. action is needed 
to address stigma6 and ensure parity of care7.  and we 
have initiated dialogue with selected stakeholders to 
scope and direct concerted efforts. 
through various initiatives, we work to reduce 
the burden of inequality and provide appropriate 
assistance to people who depend upon lundbeck’s 
therapies. for instance, healthcare can fall short for 
uninsured or underinsured people, impacting their 
access to necessary medications.
in 2020, we entered into a new global mental 
healthcare partnership with international health 
partners (ihp). it is an exciting new project, and we 
look forward to donating products and making a real 
impact together for some of the most vulnerable 
people in the world.
progress in acceptability
for many years, lundbeck has worked to enhance cul-
tural acceptance of brain diseases, to improve mental 
health parity and reduce stigma – and support disease 
awareness and offer education. as a leader in brain 
health, we have a responsibility to contribute to global 
collaborations and drive initiatives. we work alongside 
international and local advocacy groups to advance 
brain health worldwide.
guided by our progress in mind model, we partner 
with key stakeholders, including people with brain 
diseases, their families and the healthcare community. 
in 2020, our involvement spanned awareness-raising 
campaigns such as world mental health day and 
world suicide prevention day, where we also engaged 
our employees globally.
another key focus area is evidence generation. we have 
made possible research and surveys on depression in 
the workplace, evidence on the value of carers, and a 
socio-economic assessment from the london school  
of economics on early interventions in psychosis.
due to the pandemic, educational programs have 
had heightened importance and relevance. we are 
pleased to have supported rethink depression, brain 
talks, carer academy for people with psychosis, 
and capacity-building programs for patients with 
conditions such as alzheimer’s disease and migraines. 
giving patients a voice
in 2020, lundbeck’s global r&d underwent a 
significant reorganization to strengthen our patient 
and caregiver insights – as well as engagement in 
drug development. our focus in the coming years 
will be on specific underrepresented groups in clinical 
trials and how digital healthcare can help address 
access barriers.
good quality
we provide high-quality 
medicinal products, safeguard 
patient safety and combat 
counterfeit medicine.
access to brain health strategy
lundbeck’s access to brain health strategy aspirations reflects four right to health principles9:
5 the who states that a combined psychosocial and 
pharmacological approach is likely to yield the best results 
when treating mental health disorders.
6 the stigma attached to mental illness often leads to social 
exclusion and discrimination and creates an additional burden 
for the affected individual.
7 parity of care refers to valuing mental health equally with 
physical health.
8 counterfeit medicine is fake medicine that is deliberately 
mislabeled, with the correct or wrong ingredients, without 
active ingredients, with insufficient active ingredients or with 
fake packaging.
explore factbook
availability
we leverage our specialist 
knowledge to address the 
burden of brain diseases and 
continue to make medicines 
available.
acceptability
we improve mental health 
parity, reduce stigma, support 
national suicide prevention 
efforts and enhance cultural 
acceptability of brain diseases.
accessibility
we promote the accessibility 
of our medicines by addressing 
discriminatory, physical, 
economical and informational 
barriers.
safeguarding patients
the quality of our medicines is paramount to us and our 
actions to provide good quality medicines cover the entire 
value chain, from early research, clinical development and 
manufacturing, through distribution to pharmacies. 
we integrate our quality and patient safety processes into 
our ‘good practice’ gxp quality management system 
for laboratory (glp), clinical (gcp), pharmacovigilance 
(gpvp), manufacturing (gmp), and distribution (gdp).
we successfully combat counterfeit medicine8 with strin-
gent measures to secure our supply chain. we protect the 
integrity of our products to ensure that genuine lundbeck 
medicines reach patients every time.
9 inspired by the who and ohchr “factsheet no. 31 - the right to health”.
factbook
impact
introduction
2
10
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
global health and wellbeing
“we are delighted to be able to offer our first 
targeted mental health program through the 
partnership with lundbeck. our collaboration 
will lighten the burden for those living with  
poor mental health and help to change 
perceptions of these complex and often 
stigmatized conditions.”
at least two billion people in the world do not have 
access to essential medicine. international health 
partners (ihp) is a uk-based charity that coordinates the 
safe and responsible donation of medical products from 
the healthcare industry to vulnerable communities 
around the world who would otherwise have no access. 
ihp only provides long-dated and quality donated 
medicine, working with a strong network of global 
healthcare industry donors.
staff member at anera clinic, lebanon.
the partnership between ihp and lundbeck will  
support the demand for the much-needed mental 
health medicines in some of the world’s most 
vulnerable communities. both organizations are 
dedicated to improving access to essential medicines 
and are now joining forces to support the lives of  
people suffering from mental health diseases.
adele paterson
ceo, international health partners
about the partnership
factbook
impact
introduction
2
11
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
climate action and circularity
as a danish company, we have a history of being at the 
forefront of corporate leadership on climate change. we 
believe we have a responsibility to act. that is why we have 
committed to net-zero emissions and can now announce 
our new science-based target.
stepping up on climate action
reinforcing our leadership
with the launch of this report, we are proud to announce 
that lundbeck has decided to take an ambitious step 
forward to reinforce its climate leadership. in december 
2020, lundbeck received the third-party approval for 
a new science-based climate action target, one of the 
most ambitious in the pharmaceutical industry.
the science based targets initiative (sbti) defines 
and promotes best practice in science-based tar-
get setting and independently assesses companies' 
targets. science-based targets provide companies with 
a clearly-defined path to reduce emissions in line with 
the paris agreement goals.
we believe in science
historically, lundbeck has demonstrated its commit- 
ment to cut carbon emissions. a main part of the 
reduction comes from optimization of existing buildings, 
plants and installations, as well as investments in new 
low-energy machines and plants. lundbeck has also 
made a shift from conventional fuel to bio-fuel.
as illustrated on the following page, the carbon foot-
print we leave outside our fence is approximately nine 
times as high as inside the fence. we need to address 
that more strongly. and with our new climate plan, we 
take responsibility for it.
lundbeck’s new ambitious climate plan addresses 
carbon emissions across our entire value chain – from 
operations and products to raw material production, 
clinical trials, distribution and end-of-life.
science tells us we have to do this – that we can do it. 
and we believe in science.
engaging employees and business partners  
on innovation
at lundbeck, partnerships are an integral way of work-
ing. consequently, collaborating with stakeholders to 
reduce emissions while doing business together is only 
a natural extension of our way of working.
engaging everyone in our sustainability efforts is an 
approach we favor. and we have kicked off our new 
climate target with workshops mobilizing employees 
across the organization to identify and prioritize  
potential reduction measures.
we will work in close collaboration with our business 
partners, informing them of our ambitions, collabo-
we have cut deep already
since 2006, we have reduced our co2 emissions from our production 
by more than 70%3.
70%
1 reduce scope 1 and 2 co2e emissions by 63% in 2034 compared to 2019. 
2 reduce a share of scope 3 co2e emissions by 19% in 2034 compared to 2019.
3 emissions from operation of our sites.
3 elements in lundbeck’s new climate target
• commit to carbon neutrality no later than 2050 
•  further reduce carbon emissions from production and fleet drastically by almost  
two-thirds over the next 15 years1
•  work with our suppliers and customers to reduce our carbon footprint outside 
our premises by nearly a fifth over the next 15 years2
“ we are very pleased to see lundbeck reinforce its 
leadership in the transition to a net-zero economy. 
by setting ambitious new science-based targets 
consistent with limiting warming to 1.5°c, they are 
taking action to prevent the most damaging effects 
of climate change.”
alberto carrillo pineda 
director science based targets
cdp, one of the science based targets initiative partners
factbook
impact
introduction
2
12
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
climate action and circularity
11% product inputs
& packaging
11%
site power
& heat
customer emissions
4%
5%
distribution
11%
business travel
12%
fleet
15%
external research
& clinical trials
31%
goods & services
where do our climate emissions come from? 
total co2e emissions in 20192
1 ellen macarthur foundation and material economics (2019): ‘completing the picture: how the circular economy tackles climate change’.
2 source: 2019 baseline carbon footprint calculation by lundbeck with assistance from carbon trust. site power & heat and fleet roughly corresponds to our scope 1 & 2, illustrated with the gray orbs.
rating to raise awareness and set targets. and we will 
ask for innovative and circular solutions for our raw 
material and packaging. 
circularity and climate action go together
we aspire to move away from the traditional linear 
‘take-make-dispose’ manufacturing model to a more 
regenerative model. by combining continuous produc-
tion with recycling principles, we work continuously 
to become circular, integrating different manufactur-
ing processes and reusing materials across different 
processes. 
circularity’s potential to reduce emissions has been 
extensively documented.1 a more resource-efficient, 
circular economy is essential to minimize resource 
consumption and waste generation as well as for 
achieving the paris agreement’s goals. we consider 
applying circular principles as a fundamental part of 
achieving lundbeck’s climate targets.
solar-powered production
as a first step towards our new climate target, 
lundbeck has in 2020 signed a power purchase 
agreement (ppa) with a solar plant developer. the 
agreement covers our entire electricity consumption 
for operations located in denmark for the next seven 
years. and it will allow the developer to receive the 
necessary financing for building the solar power plant, 
which will come into operation in 2022. 
in the coming years, we will explore the possibilities 
for similar solutions in france, italy and the u.s.
explore factbook
factbook
impact
introduction
2
13
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
business ethics
responsible business
there is a general increase in society's expectations 
of the healthcare sector and the pharma industry is 
governed by mandatory ethical codes and regulations. 
at lundbeck, we welcome being guided by ethical 
responsibility and with respect for the constantly 
evolving stakeholder expectations. 
responsible business conduct and compliance are 
dynamic measures and integral to our sustainability 
work. this helps us navigate decisions with a broader 
perspective and steer us towards making a positive 
impact and contribution to society and the patients 
we serve.
doing the right thing
our code of conduct conveys lundbeck’s commit-
ments and expectations of our employees within areas 
critical to us and the pharmaceutical industry. it covers 
patient safety, anti-corruption, promotional activities, 
fair and open competition, personal data protection, 
it is essential that our stakeholders and business partners 
trust us – and that our employees trust one another. 
to earn that trust, we are committed to creating a 
strong ethical culture. our code of conduct lays out 
the foundation for that culture. and we strive to create 
transparency throughout our value chain beyond the 
regulations that govern us to strengthen your trust in us.
aiming beyond mandatory disclosure
in 2020, we disclosed the value of 26,729 interactions with healthcare 
professionals across 36 countries where such disclosures are either 
mandatory or voluntary. that corresponds to 93% of all of our 
transfers of value. the remainder represents cases where we did not 
succeed in obtaining permission from the healthcare professional to 
disclose the value. in the coming years, we will focus our efforts on the 
countries in which the disclosure percentage is lower.
sustaining an ethical culture
supplier and third-party obligations – and more.
lundbeck wants to make sure that everyone un-
derstands the requirements and knows how to act 
responsibly. and we provide all our employees with 
the best possible conditions to act responsibly. 
every year, our employees complete corporate training 
on our code of conduct and relevant procedures, in-
cluding local discussions on ethics and compliance. in 
the last quarter of 2020, all employees and managers 
completed our code of conduct e-learning, which was 
available in eleven different language versions. this 
year, it contained scenarios to stimulate reflections 
on working from home, personal use of social media, 
conflict of interest and everyone’s personal accounta-
bility for compliance.
we also ran a global employee e-learning on patient 
safety, campaigns on ethical decision making and 
safeguarding personal data. and we trained all people 
managers in it security and authorization.
26,729
interactions 
disclosed
furthermore, we support training with audits and con-
tinual monitoring to validate understanding of local 
requirements and collect suggestions for improving 
our way of working. 
global and local organization
2020 marked the 10th anniversary of our code of 
conduct and compliance program that has gradually 
evolved. we decided to formalize the compliance 
program and strengthen our global compliance organi-
zation ensuring that all sales affiliates globally are sup-
ported by one of the 17 regional compliance officers.
the new organization convenes the regional compli-
ance officers and our headquarters' compliance func-
tions regularly to develop the compliance program and 
share best practices. we believe that connecting the 
global and local perspectives will further accelerate the 
continuous improvements of the compliance program.
“ i’m very excited to now be part of the global 
compliance organization anchoring the ethical 
culture. i particularly value sparring across regions 
on international ethics standards and best practice 
which allows me to be at the forefront of the 
chinese market.”
henry zhang, legal & compliance 
associate director, lundbeck china
factbook
impact
introduction
2
14
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
business ethics
working with healthcare professionals  
and patients 
in general, the public perception of the pharma 
industry remains low.1 at lundbeck, we continue 
to be committed to transparency. we believe it is 
pivotal in building trust. and a key element in creating 
transparency is disclosure of every interactions’ 
transfer of value we make to individual healthcare 
professionals and patients and to their respective 
organizations.
we work with a range of stakeholders, such as 
healthcare professionals, patients and their respective 
organizations. we collaborate on research, clinical 
development, exchange of scientific information and 
marketing and sales activities.
explore factbook
1 caliber (2020), global pharma study 2020 - public perceptions of the pharmaceutical industry.
lundbeck's compliance program
documents, training, monitoring 
and governance are the elements 
that ensure we are doing the 
right thing, continually improve 
processes and sustain  
a compliance culture. 
this, it is paramount that our code of conduct also 
applies – throughout our value chain. 
to assess and verify compliance, we apply systematic 
due diligence with regards to respecting human and 
labor rights, environmental protection and preventing 
corruption. 
the specific risk areas assessed are: 
• conflict of interest
•  financial crime (including corruption, bribery,  
tax evasion and violations of trade sanctions)
• promotional misconduct
• human and labor rights violations
• significant environmental impact
often, we combine a due diligence process with train-
ing, performance monitoring and compliance audits, 
where we emphasize continuous open dialogue with 
our suppliers and third parties.
documents
training
monitoring
governance
17/10/16
$32.41070
83.44526
the interactions we have with these stakeholders are 
well regulated by national laws and industry associ-
ation standards, and at lundbeck we integrate these 
regulations into our processes, training and guidance. 
in our commitment to transparency, we disclose infor-
mation according to the current laws and regulations. 
but we wish to go beyond regulation. in 2020, we 
assessed data availability and quality to design and 
implement a global process to support measurement 
and reporting of kpis on our progress to increase the 
proportion of healthcare professionals that support 
disclosures of interactions.
supplier and third-party obligations
when we provide innovative treatments to patients, 
we engage suppliers and third parties. when we do 
factbook
impact
introduction
2
15
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
inclusive and safe working conditions
building an inclusive organization 
in june 2020, our executive management decided to 
include sdg 10 (reduce inequality) to lundbeck’s 
commitment to the sdgs. societal patterns of 
inequality are often reflected within social institutions 
and also businesses. 
including sdg 10 will broaden our current commit-
ment on gender equality. it will also help us develop 
supporting activities to address systemic discrimina-
tion based on race, sexual orientation, physical and 
mental disabilities, income levels and more. 
based on the 2020 diversity & inclusion forum’s work, 
our executive management endorsed a two-year plan 
for 2021-2022 to build an inclusive organization and, 
at the same time, an organizational d&i toolbox. 
in 2021, we will also work on different themes such 
as unconscious bias and cross-cultural awareness. 
further, we encourage establishing local d&i forums 
where relevant and we will continue with a global d&i 
we are adamant that everyone at lundbeck should feel 
safe and included when they come to work. it is a shared 
responsibility. in the spring of 2020, we formed a global 
diversity & inclusion forum with volunteers from across 
our organization. the forum’s task was to discuss how we 
take diversity & inclusion in lundbeck to the next level 
and present a plan to our executive management.
2020 diversity and inclusion forum
this year we took a bottom-up approach and established a global 
d&i forum with 32 employees as members, representing 15 different 
locations from all functional areas. their task was to look into data, 
initiatives and communication around diversity & inclusion.
a shared responsibility
council, which will act as a sounding board on future 
initiatives.
gender equality
one of the diversity and inclusion forum’s specific 
tasks was to explore how gender distribution can 
become more equal. for some years, we have 
measured the gender distribution in managerial 
positions. until now, the aim has been to ensure that 
the proportion of the underrepresented gender is at 
least 40% globally. in 2020, the proportion of female  
managers was 42% and the gender split for all 
employees was 43/57%.1
we have established a target to maintain an overall 
equal gender split for people managers globally to 
drive the development. and we plan to address gender 
equality even more in the coming years by creating 
more awareness about biases and taking a closer look 
at our hr-related processes, such as recruitment and 
promotions.
our code of conduct clearly states that all 
employees have the right to be treated with 
respect and that discrimination and harassment  
of any kind – whether it be related to gender, 
sexual orientation, nationality, religion, race,  
or anything else – are not accepted in lundbeck.
lundbeck’s board of directors has set a diversity 
target that at least one of the members elected by 
the shareholders should be of the underrepresented 
gender. in 2020, there was one female board member 
out of six members elected by the shareholders and 
one female board member out of three members 
elected by lundbeck’s employees.
taking a stand
in recent years – and in 2020 in denmark in particular 
– there has been significant focus, debate and 
reckoning of sexual harassment in different industries. 
it has been important to clearly state that we all have 
a shared responsibility to make sure our work 
environment is inclusive, safe and a great place to 
work for all.
in particular, our managers have a responsibility to 
lead by example. and we encourage all employees to 
report inappropriate workplace behavior, harassment, 
or discrimination that they experience or see. 
everyone can report to a direct manager, hr partner, 
or anonymously through the global compliance 
hotline or to lundbeck’s ombudsman.
1 the measurement includes all managers globally who have 
people management responsibilities.
factbook
impact
introduction
2
16
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
inclusive and safe working conditions
explore factbook
attractive employer
diversity brings new perspectives to the table. and 
ideas and innovative approaches from diverse employ-
ees are needed to develop our company and accelerate 
our sustainability impact. 
diversity among our employees also strengthens our 
attractiveness as an employer. and we are pleased to 
note that in august, lundbeck was ranked the fifth 
most attractive workplace in denmark in the young 
professional attraction index.
this comes on top of noteworthy recognition for 
lundbeck australia, lundbeck italy, lundbeck group 
business services in poland, which earlier this year 
received recognition from great place to work 
institute, and lundbeck u.s., which was recognized as 
a top employer by both the chicago tribune and great 
place to work institute.
safe and healthy in the face of a pandemic year
as the pandemic swept across the world in early spring, 
employers like lundbeck had to swiftly address new 
and pressing health and safety issues. due to covid-19, 
numerous extra health and safety activities have taken 
precedence to safeguard everyone working for lundbeck.
since the outbreak of covid-19, we have been taking 
necessary precautions to ensure we can continue to 
provide treatments for the millions of people who rely 
on lundbeck. our supply chain and safety surveillance 
remain intact, and we have not experienced any supply 
disruptions due to the pandemic.
we have also had increased focus on our employees’ 
mental health in these uncertain, unusual and unsafe 
times. to boost resilience, lundbeck provided a short 
series of specific training to address mental health chal-
lenges, which everyone was encouraged to take.
collaboration 
with local 
community relief 
organizations 
this year lundbeck north america 
committed usd 1m in support 
of covid-19 relief efforts in 
communities where our employees 
work and live, mainly in the greater 
chicago region, seattle and san 
diego. these donations enabled 
local non-profit organizations to 
provide interim housing and shelter, 
financial assistance, and primary 
healthcare and mental healthcare 
services to vulnerable community 
members. lundbeck supports 
local relief efforts in many of the 
communities we are part of globally.
1m
usd
on a brilliant sydney morning, it was a 
privilege to join the annual one door 
mental health wellness walk with lundbeck 
australia as gold sponsors of this community 
event, now in its 8th year. walking side 
by side with our advocacy group partners, 
people living with mental illness and 
their families, is a positive way to publicly 
demonstrate our commitment to brain 
health. “i’m proud of our 80 strong team, 
including alliance partners from otsuka 
australia, who participated in the event in 
separate covid-safe groups across new south 
wales, queensland, south australia, victoria 
and western australia. when i explain to 
my children what i do at work and what 
lundbeck stands for, it is this”, says fredrik 
kjær, managing director lundbeck australia.
you are stronger 
than you think
17
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
3
facts and figures to 
support our progress
we continuously set ambitious targets, report on progress and 
disclose a set of externally assured, non-financial indicators across 
all areas of corporate sustainability and business ethics compliance. 
this factbook offers sustainability analysts detailed facts, figures and 
references on how we govern, manage and monitor sustainability 
at lundbeck. the factbook covers environmental, social and 
governance (esg) issues.
in this section
18 
introduction to factbook 
19
environment
 
22
social
 
24
governance
26
reporting on targets
27
tcfd reference index
28
accounting principles
30
assurance report
14%
19
environmental responsibility
reduction in carbon 
emissions in 2020
factbook
impact
introduction
3
18
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
introduction to factbook
the aim of this factbook is to provide targeted information 
on our environmental, social and governance (esg) and 
sustainability management and performance. you will find 
facts and figures, status on targets, and reference guidance 
on where to find further information.
a world of sustainability facts
lundbeck in brief
lundbeck is a global pharmaceutical company with its 
head office in denmark, doing business in more than 
50 countries, with research facilities in denmark and 
the u.s., and a vertical production set-up in denmark 
(2 sites), italy (1 site), and france (1 site).
sustainability strategy
lundbeck’s sustainability activities aim to mitigate risks 
and adverse impacts related to our business activities 
and to contribute to solving societal challenges where 
we can. we remain committed to the un global 
compact principles and contribute to addressing seven 
of the un sustainable development goals.
esg management at lundbeck
environment, social and governance (esg) on a cor-
porate level is managed by corporate compliance & 
sustainability, and on a topical level by selected sub-
ject matter experts. the executive management group 
is the steering group for the sustainability strategy. 
sustainability risk management is part of our general 
risk approach described in our annual report.
governing documents
we build our governance around the principles in our 
code of conduct, which are cascaded as needed into 
manuals, guidelines, policies and standard operating 
procedures.
our stakeholders
esg is a term frequently used in the financial sector, 
and investors and financial institutions are indeed key 
stakeholders for us. but equally important to our esg 
and sustainability work are stakeholder groups such 
as employees, civil society organizations, healthcare 
professionals, healthcare organizations, patient organi-
zations, communities, suppliers, and third parties.
our material issues
based on internal and external stakeholder dialogue 
and sustainability accounting standards board 
(sasb) materiality map® for biotechnology & 
pharmaceuticals 1, and sdg impact we continuously 
calibrate our material issues.
our current top material issues are:
• patient safety and product quality
• access to medicine
•  responsible business conduct including  
anti-corruption, transparent interactions,  
and promotional compliance
•  employment conditions at lundbeck and in our value 
chain, including diversity and inclusion
• the environment, including climate change 
esg achievements in 2020
lundbeck has significantly improved its esg ratings in 2020 with a concerted effort to 
report relevant information for investors and analysts. among our achievements are:
assurance
selected 2020 indicators presented in the key 
performance indicators tables on page 19, 20, 21, 23 
and 25 have been assessed by pwc in accordance with 
the isae 3000 standard to obtain limited assurance. 
the assurance report is found on page 30-31.
esg
top rated
industry
1 sasb standards identify the subset of esg issues most relevant 
to financial performance in each of 77 industries.
copyright ©2020 sustainalytics. all rights reserved.
this publication contains information developed by sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). such information and data are proprietary 
of sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (third party data) and are provided for informational purposes only. they do not 
constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate 
or suitable for a particular purpose. their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
19
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
environment
our r&d and manufacturing activities are largely based on 
chemical synthesis, meaning we use considerable amounts 
of organic solvents and energy, generating waste and 
air emissions. we manage these environmental impacts 
diligently to minimize any adverse environmental impacts 
including impacts from the end-use of our medicines.
environmental responsibility
environmental policies  
and performance
lundbeck believes that protecting the environment is a 
condition for good health and wellbeing. our environ-
mental work is governed by our code of conduct, our 
health, safety and environment policy, and health, 
safety and environment strategy.
lundbeck has several positions in relation to the 
environment. read online about our positions on 
environmental footprint, climate change, water, 
and biodiversity.
environmental management
we have a long-standing history of strong environ-
mental management. lundbeck’s corporate headquar-
ters and our larger research, development and manu-
facturing facilities are certified to the iso 14001:2015 
standard.
environmental management
environmental incidents
environmental incidents with impact  
on the environment
environmental near miss
2018
2019
2020
note
key performance indicator
no.
no.
no.
6
1
23
4
0
43
7
2
34
1
unit
status on 2020 sustainability targets
reduce co2 emissions by 4% in 2020 
compared to 2019
obtain ‘science based targets 
initiative (sbti)’ approval of new 
climate target
recycle 55% of the solvents used in 
chemical production
zero environmental incidents with an 
impact on the environment
in 2020, we reduced co2 
emissions by 14%
in december 2020, we 
obtained an approval of our 
new climate target
we have recycled 68% of 
solvents
two incidents with an 
impact on the environment 
resulted in us not meeting 
our target
comment
sdg
2020 target
achieved
status
achieved
achieved
not  
achieved
our target is to have zero environmental incidents 
with impact on the environment. in 2020 we did 
not achieve this target due to two incidents that we 
have reported in accordance with the terms of our 
environmental permits. they were both minor and did 
not result in injunctions or fines. we also saw a small 
increase in environmental incidents without an impact 
on the environment from 4 to 7, but a drop in near  
misses from 43 to 34. we take the increase in 
incidents very seriously and thorough root cause 
analysis has been carried out in each case to learn and 
prevent repetition.
pharmaceutical residues
we acknowledge stakeholder concerns about pharma-
ceutical residues in the environment. residues mainly 
come from patients’ excretion of medicine taken to 
treat or prevent a disease. we test the environmental 
effects of new medicinal products and design process-
es with the least possible environmental impact. 
we pursue approaches that balance healthcare 
needs and environmental considerations in line with 
the efpia’s eco-pharmaco-stewardship initiative to 
minimize pharmaceuticals in the environment.
1   sustainability target for 2020 of zero environmental incidents with an impact on the environment.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
20
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
environment
climate and energy management
lundbeck is committed to achieving a zero-carbon 
economy and setting science-based targets. in 2020, 
we had a new science-based target approved. we 
over-performed on our previous science-based target 
for emissions that expired in 2020.
climate and energy
carbon and air emission (total)
ghgs
organic solvents
energy consumption (total)
natural gas, methane, city gas, f-gas
gasoil, bio-oil, diesel
district heating
electricity
16,016
15,973
43
94,312
31,365
11,693
12,711
38,543
17,056
17,012
45
99,605
33,060
12,027
12,925
41,593
14,751
14,712
39
100,724 
33,961
12,882
12,330
41,551
1, 3
2
2018
2019
2020
note
key performance indicator
tonne
co2e
tonne
mwh
mwh
mwh
mwh
mwh
unit
in 2020, we continued our focus on saving energy and 
reducing carbon emissions, e.g. by replacing conven-
tional fuel oil with bio-oil. in 2020, the indirect 
emissions from our purchased energy was also 
reduced. in total, we achieved a reduction in carbon 
emissions from production of 14% compared to 2019, 
achieving our yearly target of 4%. in the same period, 
our production volume increased and our energy 
consumption was almost unchanged. we have not 
purchased certificates of origin in 2020 to achieve this 
result.
carbon disclosure project (cdp)
lundbeck is once again proud to be on cdp’s a list. read our 
latest cdp report online.
task force on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd)
we support the tcfd recommendations. see the tcfd 
reference index on page 27 of this report.
science-based targets
lundbeck has obtained an approval of our science-based target, 
which includes most of our scope 3 emissions. read more about 
our science-based target in the impact section of this report.
business ambition for 1.5°c
lundbeck has joined visionary leaders around the world by 
committing to a net-zero, 1.5°c future through the business 
ambition for 1.5°c campaign. the campaign is an urgent call to 
action for companies to set ambitious science-based targets from 
a global coalition of un agencies, businesses, and industry leaders.
leadership in climate action
1   scope 1 and 2 emissions. estimated 95% of ghg emissions is co₂ emissions.
2   data for district heating in 2019 updated.
3   data for ghg's in 2019 has been updated due to updated district heating consumption.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
21
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
environment
circularity, resource flows and recycling
finished goods production (total)
chemical production (total)
raw materials (total)
organic solvents
api
cleansing agent
waste (total)
chemical waste
recycling
incineration
biological treatment
landfill
general waste
recycling
incineration
landfill
water consumption (total)
potable water
unfiltered water
waste water
2,258,194,100
339
3,758
3,667
83
8
12,525
11,384
1,278
6,226
3,880
0
1,141
679
460
2
374,406
198,158
176,248
344,731
2,252,128,380
406
4,127
4.043
75
9
14,157
12,900
1,217
7,057
4,626
0
1,256
769
487
0
285,671
195,289
90,382
252,219
2,514,461,932
369
3,874
3,793
72
9
15,025
13,577
1,256
6,507
5,815
0
1,448
985
459
4
238,008
182,291
55,717
201,937
3
1
2
3
3
2018
2019
2020
note
key performance indicator
units
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
tonne
m3
m3
m3
m3
unit
circularity, resource flows  
and recycling
over the years, we have refined the skills and technical 
capabilities of our chemical production to increase 
recycling of organic solvents and reduce hazardous 
waste. we set targets each year to improve and in 
2020, we are proud to report that we achieved the 
target of internal recycling 55% of the solvents used 
in chemical production. this high-technological 
production process is developed in collaboration with 
the technical university of denmark.
we also made good progress on increasing the 
recycling of general waste. in 2020, we implemented 
a recycling program for all plastic foil, which is used to 
wrap pallet content at our api manufacturing site in 
lumsås, denmark. we have also successfully launched 
a recycling program for non-used final packaging 
material (carton packages and package leaflets) in 
our finished goods department in valby, denmark. 
this means that in 2020, we have sent less waste to 
incineration. in 2021, we will increase the focus on 
general waste even though the amounts are relatively 
small, and we have set a target to recycle 62% of all 
waste.
we work continuously to reduce our consumption of 
water and waste water and have significantly done so 
over the years to a very low level. in 2020, we have 
made significant savings on water consumption mainly 
due to technological improvements and optimization 
activity in the cooling system circuit at our produc-
tion site in padova, italy, but also due to a different 
production mix, as water is primarily used for cleaning 
equipment. we also managed reduction which can 
be partly contributed to automation of the waste 
water management system at our production site in 
valbonne, france.
cutting solvent  
air emissions
in october, the new regenerative thermal oxidiser 
plant at our manufacturing facility in lumsås, 
denmark was inaugurated by our ceo. the eur 
9m project is an important statement of our 
commitment to the responsible production of 
medicines and sustainability. we expect to reduce 
our solvent air emissions to only 10% of what they 
are today.
1   a part of waste for incineration from production facility in lumsås (denmark) 2018 and 2019 reclassified as biological treatment.
2   waste for landfill from production facility in padova (italy) in  2018 and 2019 reclassified as biological treatment.
3   wood pallets included in recycling from 2020 only.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
22
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
social
in the social area, lundbeck’s most material issue is product 
and patient safety which is very robustly managed and 
governed. access to medicine is a very material area and we 
have launched a new 2030 access to brain health strategy 
to develop our efforts further in the coming years. we also 
consider conditions for people working for us and our 
business partners as part of our social responsibility.
management of social issues
access to medicine
for information on lundbeck’s drug donation program, 
our position papers, disease awareness material and 
patient support programs see the impact section of 
this report.
pricing
lundbeck acknowledges the challenges faced by 
healthcare systems under pressure from rising de-
mands and we recognize concerns expressed on the 
affordability of innovative medicines. see more in our 
global pricing position.
combating counterfeit products
we take stringent measures to secure our supply chain 
and ensure that genuine lundbeck medicines reach 
patients every time. we protect the integrity of our 
products by labeling packages with batch numbers, 
serial numbers and 2d matrix technologies. 
we use transport companies that have been risk 
assessed, audited if evaluated necessary and managed 
through service agreements.
we collaborate with customs authorities to surveil 
shipments claiming to contain lundbeck products and 
engage with international organizations dedicated to 
fighting counterfeit medicine.
patient safety
the lundbeck safety board is the primary safety gov-
ernance body at lundbeck with a mandate to pause 
development activities globally for safety reasons, 
including to escalate safety issues directly to the ceo.
in 2019, a chief medical officer role was introduced and 
fully implemented in procedures in 2020. the role is 
linked to the chair role of the lundbeck safety board.
a covid-19 emergency plan (business continuity plan) 
for patient safety was activated in march and is still 
ongoing, with solid planning securing no disruptions in 
safety obligations, procedures or staffing over the year.
in 2020, all employees globally were required to com-
plete an online awareness training on patient safety / 
pharmacovigilance.  
product quality
product quality is paramount and a key priority at 
lundbeck. all our sites are subject to both internal 
and external good process (gxp) audits as well as 
regulatory audits. 
all lundbeck sites hold the necessary certifications 
to operate as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, and 
we cascade our standards in our value chain through 
audits and trainings relating to good manufacturing 
practices and good distribution practices.
in 2020, there has been a reduction of physical audits 
due to the covid-19 pandemic. but critical audits in 
our supply chain have been carried out via digital, 
physical and virtual audits.
promotional activities
promotion of medicinal products is strictly regulat-
ed and monitored by local authorities and industry 
associations. we are committed to complying with 
applicable laws, regulations and industry codes. this 
means maintaining processes and providing extensive 
training to ensure that promotional activities are 
appropriately assessed.
lundbeck’s promotional and advertising review com-
mittee assesses promotional activities, including 
materials, produced at our headquarters. our affiliates 
are responsible for ensuring that promotional activi-
ties, including materials, are assessed in accordance 
with applicable rules, before the materials are used 
within the specific local market.
status on 2020 sustainability targets
engage all lundbeck offices in local 
world mental health day activities
establish a product donation 
partnership
strive to maintain an overall equal 
gender split for people managers 
globally
reduce lost time accident  
frequency ≤ 5
63 lundbeck and 3 partner 
offices participated
partnership agreement 
with ihp signed in 
december
lundbeck maintains an 
equal gender split for 
people managers globally 
at 42/58%
lundbeck’s lost time 
accident frequency at 5.5
comment
sdg
2020 target
achieved
status
achieved
achieved
not  
achieved
factbook
impact
introduction
3
23
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
social
working at lundbeck
our employees are our most important and critical 
resource. at lundbeck, we ensure respect for the 
individual and the continuous development of our 
employees. and we consider staying safe and healthy 
at work a fundamental right for all.
diversity and inclusion
lundbeck is a diverse company determined to build 
an inclusive high-performance culture that allows all 
employees to enrich their professional skills and career 
within lundbeck without discrimination. in 2020, we 
conducted training on respect in the workplace and 
updated our global diversity and inclusion policy.
employee satisfaction and development
all employees globally participate in an annual 
employee satisfaction survey, where results of the 
survey are shared internally, and action plans are put 
in place where necessary.
all employees are also appraised annually and have an 
opportunity to discuss individual training needs and 
career aspirations with their immediate manager.
for more information about working at lundbeck, visit 
our career pages.
occupational health and safety
it is key for lundbeck that we provide a safe and 
healthy workplace and inclusive culture. this is 
addressed and enforced through regular training, 
awareness campaigns, and internal audits.
lundbeck’s health and safety performance is governed 
by our code of conduct, our health and safety policy 
and our health and safety strategy.
due to covid-19, this year’s efforts have been directed 
at persons working on-site and those working from 
home. for persons who have had to come to work 
physically on-site, lundbeck has taken all precautions 
to keep these people safe. we are happy to report 
a decrease in accident frequency of 11% in 2020 
compared to last year, due to preventive actions 
and less activities on our sites caused by covid-19 
measures. we were however not successful in reaching 
our 2020 target of a frequency of lost time accident 
rate below 5, with a rate for the full year of 5.5. we did 
unfortunately experience a serious working accident 
at our production site in valbonne, where an employee 
sustained a bone fracture to his leg. our systematic 
approach to risk assessment has kept the number of 
work-related diseases very low in recent years. two 
allergy cases related to use of gloves were the work-
related diseases registered in 2020.
lundbeck’s corporate headquarters and our larger 
research, development and manufacturing facilities 
are certified to the ohsas 18001 health and safety 
management system. in 2020, all applicable sites have 
qualified to replace our ohsas certification with an 
iso 45001 standard certification.
working standards in our value chain
all raw material suppliers for commercial production 
and contract manufacturing organizations are subject 
to a human rights and environmental due diligence 
prior to engagement with lundbeck, as well as ongoing 
monitoring. all such facilities located outside eu/ess 
and north america are audited by qualified lundbeck 
staff for health & safety, employment and environ-
mental conditions.
third parties and suppliers are contractually bound to 
adhere to local and internationally recognized labor, 
human rights and environmental standards.
critical or material collaboration partners and suppli-
ers are contractually required to adopt our third party 
health and safety
work-related accidents with absence
work-related near miss
work-related accidents without absence
work-related diseases
frequency of lost time accidents
fatalities
25
494
98
1
7.5
0
23
554
91
2
6.2
0
20
470
66
2
5.5
0
1
2018
2019
2020
note
key performance indicators
no.
no.
no.
no.
frequency
no.
unit
1   sustainability target for 2020 of lost time accidents frequency ≤ 5.
2   https://www.uhc2030.org/blog-news-events/uhc2030-blog/putting-mental-health-firmly-into-uhc-efforts-is-critical-to-the-success-of-uhc-and-will-reap-benefits-far-beyond-the-health-sector-555439/
obligations, which bind them to adhere to relevant 
sections of lundbeck’s code of conduct.
human rights statement
in 2020, we updated our human rights statement, ex-
pressing our commitment to respect human rights. ad-
ditionally, we are advocates for the respect of human 
rights in relation to mental health. it is a tragic fact 
that people living with mental health conditions can 
be amongst the most vulnerable in society, enduring 
incarceration, chaining, coercion and over-medicaliza-
tion, stigma and exclusion.2
data privacy
read our data privacy policy to find out more about 
how we at lundbeck are committed to safeguarding 
the rights of patients, research and business partners 
and our employees, in accordance with applicable 
personal data legislation.
physically and  
mentally healthy
in 2020, lundbeck joined the 
international association for suicide 
prevention’s cycle the globe 
campaign aimed at raising awareness 
about suicide prevention and 
supporting world suicide prevention 
day. 330 lundbeck colleagues 
around the world participated in the 
campaign and biked a grand total of 
67,204 kilometers to raise awareness 
about suicide prevention and keep 
themselves physically and mentally 
healthy – particularly important 
during a covid-19 period.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
24
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
governance
our code of conduct compliance program ensures that 
relevant risks are identified, that procedures to manage 
them are established, understood and being followed, and 
that monitoring activities identify and manage needed 
improvements.
governance and compliance
responsible business conduct
our code of conduct is the backbone of our ethics 
and compliance culture and is available in 11 different 
languages. it conveys our commitments and expecta-
tions to our employees for areas critical to the phar-
maceutical industry. all employees and third parties 
working on lundbeck’s behalf are obliged to observe 
the code of conduct and any stricter local regulations.
compliance management
the global and local procedures around the code of 
conduct contain more operational requirements and 
good practices. lundbeck maintains a good practice 
(gxp) quality management system for patient and 
product safety to control risks, continually improve 
processes and meet regulatory expectations.
our audits and monitoring efforts aim to validate un-
derstanding of the requirements and capture sugges-
tions for improvements of the processes and controls. 
lundbeck’s auditors provide feedback with corrective 
and preventive actions to ensure local management 
ownership and follow-up.
transparent interactions
we are committed to transparency and we are a 
member of the european federation of pharmaceutical 
industries associations (efpia).
we disclose the transfers of value we make to 
individual healthcare professionals and patients and  
to their respective organizations. in 2020, we disclosed 
the value of 26,729 interactions with healthcare
professionals across 36 countries where such 
disclosures are either mandatory or voluntary.
read more about interactions with healthcare pro-
fessionals and patients, a methodological note on 
disclosures and lundbeck’s efpia disclosure code, 
self-certification scheme. 
supplier and third party due diligence
our supplier and third party due diligence process spe-
cifically looks at identifying and mitigating risks in re-
lation to: conflict of interest; financial crime including 
bribery, tax evasion and violations of trade sanctions; 
promotional misconduct; human and labor rights 
violations; and significant environmental impacts.
the due diligence process takes a risk-based approach 
and targets goods, services and collaborations 
where the risks are most prevalent: in chemical 
manufacturing, customs clearance, product 
price negotiations, obtaining product marketing 
authorizations, organizing promotional or educational 
events, and when selling lundbeck products. 
in 2020, our internal experts conducted 100 due 
diligences to identify and mitigate 35 specific risks in 
relation to suppliers and third parties.
annual training
every year, we ask all employees to complete our global code of 
conduct training. in 2020, the e-learning featured ethical dilemmas 
relating to working from home, using social media, managing conflict 
of interest and personal accountability. in short videos, key managers 
presented their personal perspectives on good practices. the feedback 
was positive: 86% of our employees rated the training as either 4 or 5 
stars (1-5 scale).
86%
read more about our due diligence process on our 
webpage, see the areas covered by our due diligence 
process, and the contractual obligations that third 
parties are required to adhere to.
enabling safe reporting
we encourage everyone to have ongoing dialogue 
on compliance and ethics with their colleagues and 
manager. however, we realize that some questions, 
dilemmas or concerns might not be discussed openly, 
which is why we have a compliance hotline and a 
status on 2020 sustainability targets
annual code of conduct training 
completed by all employees at work 
globally
work to increase proportion of 
healthcare professionals supporting 
disclosure of collaborations compared 
to the previous reporting year
annual training launched in november. 
achieved a 99.8% completion rate
we have developed a data model, 
established baselines, identified gaps and 
evaluated approaches
comment
2020 target
achieved
status
achieved
factbook
impact
introduction
3
25
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
governance
non-retaliation policy. our substantiation rate has over 
the past five years been in the range of 30% to 50%. 
in 2020, we have worked to increase visibility of the 
compliance hotline via internal awareness campaigns 
and externally on localized lundbeck websites. read 
more on what allegations can be reported.
audits and monitoring 
internal audits
due to the global covid-19 pandemic we shifted focus 
from physical audits and monitoring to virtual and 
desktop based approaches in 2020. we have been able 
to scale up certain activities as the time effectiveness 
of monitoring, for instance, a commercial event virtu-
ally has provided us with opportunities to join more 
activities than what is possible physically. thus we can 
report an increase in the total number of internal audit 
activities in 2020.
external audits
also due to the global covid-19 pandemic we have in 
2020, where possible, conducted virtual and desktop 
based audits to ensure business continuity from an au-
dit and monitoring perspective. in cases where it was 
not possible to conduct a virtual or desktop audit, such 
activities were postponed, for instance hse audits. 
hence the decrease in total number of external audit 
activity in 2020.
clinical trials
clinical trials are outsourced and continuously 
monitored on regulatory good practice requirements, 
as well as all relevant requirements from lundbeck’s 
code of conduct. 
lundbeck registers clinical trial protocols and discloses 
the results of clinical trials, regardless of outcome, in a 
publicly accessible clinical trial registry (clinicaltrials.
gov). in addition, clinical trial protocols and results 
information submitted by lundbeck to the eudract 
database is made publicly available by the european 
medicines agency (ema) via its clinical trial registry: 
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu. clinical trial reports 
will be accessible on the eudract site in accordance with 
ema policy/0070. non-interventional studies may 
also be disclosed if, for example, they are considered to 
provide important safety data.
lundbeck will seek to ensure that disclosure of clinical 
trial information follows the ifpma, efpia, jpma, and 
phrma joint position paper “disclosure of clinical trial 
information via clinical trial registries and databases”, 
the declaration of helsinki and other relevant clinical 
trial disclosure requirements.
animal testing
it is required by health authorities that animals are used 
to ensure that new medicines are safe and efficacious. 
lundbeck is committed to ensure ethical treatment of 
animals used in laboratory settings.
lundbeck’s animal care and use committee oversees 
all experiments on animals and reviews animal models 
on a continuous basis using the principles of replace-
ment, refinement and reduction of animals (3rs) to 
which we are fully committed. we also work with 
others on the 3rs for continuous improvements and 
actively support the national 3r center in denmark.
all employees working with animals have appropriate and 
documented education (felasa standards) and training.
our animal testing approval committee consists of:
a chairman (svp level), a researcher with hands-on 
experience, a representative from animal facilities, 
laboratory animal veterinarians, a lay person and an 
external expert in laboratory animal science.
public and political influence
we comply with the danish lobby codex for pharma-
governance and compliance
total sum of all audits
sum of internal audits
patient & product safety audits
health, safety & environment audits
business ethics and internal control audits
sum external audits
patient & product safety audits
health, safety & environment audits
business ethics and compliance audits
compliance hotline reports
383
226
66
17
143
157
144
10
3
15
314
132
75
7
50
182
166
14
2
28
344
212
71
8
133
132
120
2
10
24
1
2018
2019
2020
note
key performance indicators
number
number
number
number
number
number
number
number
number
number
unit
ceutical association. global affiliates follow local 
legislation.
our eu lobbying activities are registered in the official 
transparency register, but we currently do not have 
any activities.
in the u.s., we are required to report quarterly to 
congress (searchable through a public database) the 
costs associated with lobbying on behalf of lundbeck 
(which includes our consultants and trade association 
dues attributable to lobbying), and also discloses the 
issues we lobby on.
corporate governance
our governance framework consists of rules and prin-
ciples that support sustainable financial performance 
and long-term value creation for our shareholders and 
for our societies. more information is also available in 
our statutory corporate governance report.
tax policy
lundbeck’s tax policy is reviewed and approved by 
our board of directors annually. for 2020, lundbeck 
disclosed country by country level tax in countries 
classified as tax havens by the imf and eu, and plans 
to extend disclosures further in the coming years. 
lundbeck is not engaged in artificial or opaque struc-
tures that are intended for tax avoidance or have no 
commercial substance.  
board level committees
the board of directors has set up three advisory 
committees: the audit committee, the remuneration 
& nomination committee and the scientific com-
mittee. more can be read in our statutory corporate 
governance report.
1   one extensive remote desktop review covered activities in 33 countries.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
26
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
reporting on targets
sustainability targets
issue 
2021 target 
2020 target 
sdg impact
access to brain health
business ethics
climate action
environmental management
diversity and inclusion
health and safety
ensure all disease awareness sponsorships within psychiatry 
measurably support suicide prevention or mental health 
awareness
donate treatment for at least 900 patients through new product 
donation partnerships in low- and middle-income countries
annual code of conduct training completed by all employees at 
work globally
increase proportion of healthcare professionals supporting 
disclosure of collaborations compared to the previous reporting year
reduce total carbon footprint across own operations, supply and 
distribution in line with our science-based target1
build an inclusive organization with a first initiative focusing on 
unconscious bias across the organization
maintain an overall equal gender split for people managers globally
reduce lost time accident frequency ≤ 5
achieved
not achieved
recycle 60% of the solvents used in chemical production
recycle 62% of all general waste
engage all lundbeck offices in local world mental health day 
activities
establish a product donation partnership
annual code of conduct training completed by all employees at 
work globally
work to increase proportion of healthcare professionals supporting 
disclosure of collaborations compared to the previous reporting year
reduce co2 emission by 4% in 2020 compared to 2019
obtain ‘science based targets initiative (sbti)’ approval of new 
climate target
recycle 55% of the solvents used in chemical production
zero environmental incidents with an impact on the environment
strive to maintain an overall equal gender split for people 
managers globally
reduce lost time accident frequency ≤ 5
1   we will report progress annually on the approved 15-year targets in scope 1 & 2 (own produced energy and purchased energy) and scope 3 (emissions from supply, services, distribution and more).
factbook
impact
introduction
3
27
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
tcfd reference index
summary and reference index of lundbeck’s tcfd reporting
governance
strategy
risk management
metrics and targets
a
b
c
describe the board’s oversight of climate-re-
lated risks and opportunities. 
the ceo has the overall responsibility of the 
sustainability strategy and presents major 
decisions to the board when relevant. 
cdp 1.1b
a key risk overview is reviewed by our audit 
committee and shared with the board of 
directors.
cdp 2.2
describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities. 
risks including related mitigating actions 
and opportunities are assessed regularly by 
the executive management and reviewed 
together with the board of directors. 
cdp 1.2a 
describe the climate-related risks and oppor-
tunities the organization has identified over 
the short, medium and long term.
our risks and opportunities all have low 
impact, except physical risks of exposure to 
extreme weather events that can affect our 
sites, partners and suppliers, and conversely 
the opportunity to maintain a strong and 
resilient supply chain and own production. 
cdp 2.3a and cdp 2.4a
describe the impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organization’s busi-
nesses, strategy and financial planning. 
cdp 3.1d, 3.1e and 3.1f
describe the resilience of the organization’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°c or 
lower scenario.
we do prepare scenario analysis using climate 
modeling scenarios predicting temperature 
increases. in 2021, our process for this analysis 
will be evaluated with a view to strengthen 
cross-functional involvement.
cdp 3.1b
describe the organization’s processes for iden-
tifying and assessing climate-related risks.
risks on both company and asset level, 
covering both direct operations and our 
upstream and downstream value chain, are 
identified and managed in our corporate risk 
management system. 
the risk office assesses the overall risk 
exposure and discusses it with the executive 
management. 
cdp 2.2
describe the organization’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks.
the risk office assesses the overall risk 
exposure and discusses it with the executive 
management. a key risk overview is reviewed 
by our audit committee and shared with the 
board of directors.
cdp 2.2
describe how processes for identifying, as-
sessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organization’s overall 
risk management. 
see above.
cdp 2.2
disclose the metrics used by the organi-
zation to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and 
risk management process.
emissions are reported annually in accord-
ance with the greenhouse gas (ghg) pro-
tocol (revised edition) in our cdp response 
and are broken down by type, country and 
business division. 
cdp 4
disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropri-
ate, scope 3 ghg emissions, and the related 
risks.
lundbeck discloses our scope 1, scope 2 
and scope 3 emissions through our cdp 
submittal and publishes our scope 1 and 2 
emissions in our sustainability report and on 
our website.
describe the targets used by the organiza-
tion to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
we have several targets to manage our 
climate-related risks and opportunities. see 
the impact section of this report for our new 
science-based target.
cdp 4.1a
climate-related financial disclosures 
(tcfd) reference index
reporting according  
to tcfd
lundbeck supports the tcfd recommendations and 
believes they provide a useful framework to increase 
transparency on climate-related risks and opportuni-
ties within financial markets. as part of our support for 
the tcfd recommendations, lundbeck comprehen-
sively reports on governance, strategy, business oppor-
tunities, and risks related to climate change through 
the climate disclosure project (cdp). in the table to 
the right is a summary and reference index. you can 
find our latest full cdp disclosure on our website.
source: based on our 2020 disclosure to cdp.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
28
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
accounting principles
lundbeck is committed to transparency and disclosure. 
here you will find the accounting principles, including the 
definitions for the key performance indicators we report on.
accounting principles
reporting period
all reported data are covering a full year period  
(1 january to 31 of december 2020).
controls
for the hse data gathered at local sites, the quality 
assurance process makes sure that all attached docu-
mentation is crosschecked and signed off by manage-
ment. it is a requirement that data must be traceable 
back to the primary source. deviations in data of more 
than 5% compared to the previous year must always 
be explained.
scope
the scope for reporting lundbeck hse data is all sites 
of development, research and chemical/pharmaceu-
tical production owned/controlled by lundbeck. ad-
ministration is not included unless being part of a site 
of development, research or chemical/pharmaceutical 
production. sales organizations are not included and 
development, research and chemical/pharmaceutical 
production sites of less than 50 employees are not 
included. this scope covers 40-45% of all lundbeck 
group employees, but the reported scope is assumed 
to cover a significantly larger proportion of the group’s 
total values on the reported hse kpis. the scope of the 
business ethics reporting is all sites and all employees.
definitions
air emission
solvent emissions are established from online 
systems/meters in the discharge or from con-
sumption and fixed evaporation percentages.
biological treatment
waste treated in a biological treatment plant. 
sludge is disposed to the soil.
business ethics and compliance audits 
(external)
compliance reviews of third parties and suppli-
ers (based on contractual requirements and re-
quirements stipulated in lundbeck’s third party 
obligations), and information security reviews 
of external personal data processors.
business ethics and internal control  
audits (internal)
compliance reviews, financial audits and 
reviews, audits and monitoring of field-based 
activities and employees.
carbon and air emission
carbon and air emission include ghgs and 
organic solvents.
chemical production
chemical production of active pharmaceutical 
ingredients (api).
ghg emissions
co₂e emission includes scope 1 (own produced 
energy) and scope 2 (purchased energy). energy 
consumption is converted to co₂e emission 
by emission factors from public sources or 
from our energy suppliers. co₂ emission is an 
estimated 95% of total ghgs.
compliance hotline reports
reported concerns that involve legal, serious 
financial and reputational risks as specified at 
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/compliance-
hotline.
energy consumption
energy is divided into: gas (natural gas/meth-
ane or city gas), gasoil, bio-oil, district heating 
and electricity.
environmental incident
accidental and unintentional release where the 
released substance is out of control and has had 
or is having a negative effect on the external 
environment. incidents have an impact on the 
environment only if severity is rated “high” or 
“catastrophic”.
environmental near miss
contained spill (no or little spill) which did not 
have an adverse environmental effect/impact. 
the near miss could have escalated to an envi-
ronmental incident had the circumstances been 
a little different.
fatalities
an accident or injury resulting a casualty.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
29
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
accounting principles
finished goods production
pharmaceutical production is established in pro-
duction units (e.g. one package of finished goods).
frequency of lost time accidents
statistics and frequency of lost time due to 
absence is only based on data related to internal 
lundbeck employees. number of employees 
are pulled from a database for the reporting 
year. number of employees consist of corporate 
full-time, part-time and temporary employees. 
employees do not include contractors from vari-
ous maintenance firms, who are given direction by 
their own supervisor who in turn is given direction 
by a lundbeck (or subsidiary) employee.
total number of man-hours is calculated using an 
estimate of 225 working days a year, 7.4 hours per 
day. the absence frequency is estimated as the 
number of lost days per 1 million work hours.
health, safety & environment audits
process for verifying that our internal operations, as 
well as the operations of our suppliers and third par-
ties, meet our expectations and requirements with 
regards to health & safety performance, human and 
labor rights performance (applicable for suppliers 
and third parties), and environmental performance.
patient & product safety audits
includes the following audit areas: good clinical 
practice, good laboratory practice, good 
manufacturing practice, good distribution 
practice, medical regulatory clinical quality 
assurance (mrc qa), pharmacovigilance audits, 
chemistry, manufacturing, and controls quality 
assurance (cmc qa), corporate product 
quality (cpq), and animal welfare.
raw materials
consumption of organic solvents, active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (api) and cleansing 
agents. organic solvents consist of chemical 
compounds used in research and production.
total sum of all audits
consolidated sum of patient and product safety 
audit, health, safety & environment audits, 
business ethics and compliance audits (exter-
nal), business ethics and internal control audits 
(internal).
waste
waste is divided into “chemical waste” and 
“general waste". for some categories of waste, 
data from november and december are based 
on assumptions, due to lack of primary data.
water consumption
the total quantity of water used. potable water 
from supplier (tap water). unfiltered water is 
water from own well/ground water.
definitions – continued
waste water
waste water includes tap water and treated/
discharged ground water. 
work-related accident with absence 
an undesired event or exposure that gives rise 
to personal injury and results in more absence 
than the day the event took place.
work related accident without absence
an undesired event or exposure that gives rise 
to personal injury.
work related diseases
a disease that is caused by prolonged exposure 
at work and recognized as a disease by the 
competent authority. chronic work-related 
diseases are only recorded once in lundbeck 
data collecting process.
work related near miss
a sudden, unexpected incident or situation 
where no personal injury occurs, but a notable 
event so that injury could have resulted had 
circumstances been a little different.
looking for more?
detailed accounting principles can 
be found at our website.
reporting to 
regulation
our sustainability report is 
released as part of the annual 
reporting suite.
the sustainability report 
contains lundbeck's non-financial 
reporting on sustainability 
according to the danish 
financial statements act. this 
report is lundbeck's statutory 
statements on 99a, 99b and 
107d, and consequently, the 2020 
sustainability report is part of the 
2020 management review.
the report is prepared in line with 
the requirements for non-financial 
reporting as outlined in the eu 
reporting directive.
factbook
impact
introduction
3
30
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
assurance report
independent limited assurance report 
to the management of h. lundbeck a/s
the management of h. lundbeck a/s (“lundbeck”) engaged 
us to provide limited assurance on the selected data described 
below for the period 1 january – 31 december 2020 in 
accordance with lundbeck’s accounting principles.
our conclusion
based on the procedures we performed and the 
evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to  
our attention that causes us to believe that the 
selected data for the year ended 31 december 2020 
have not been prepared in all material respects, in 
accordance with the accounting principles as stated on 
pages 28-29 of this report (‘accounting principles’).
this conclusion is to be read in the context of what  
we state in the remainder of our report.
what we are assuring
the scope of our work was limited to assurance on 
selected data for the period 1 january – 31 december 
2020 in the section “factbook” (pages 17-25) in 
lundbeck’s sustainability report 2020, namely 
("selected data")
• environmental management: data on “environmental 
incidents with impact on the environment” (page 19)
• climate and energy: data on “carbon and air 
emissions (total)" and “energy consumption (total)" 
(page 20)
• circularity, resource flows and recycling: data on 
“finished goods production (total)”, “chemical 
production (total)”, “organic solvents”, “waste 
(total)”, “biological treatment”, “recycling (general 
waste)”, “water consumption (total)” and “waste 
water” (page 21)
• health and safety: data on “work-related accidents 
with absence”, “work-related diseases”, “frequency 
of lost time accidents” and “fatalities” (page 23)
• governance and compliance: data on “sum of 
internal audits”, “sum external audits” and 
“compliance hotline reports” (page 25)
we assessed the selected data using lundbeck’s 
accounting principles as set out on pages 28-29  
of this report. 
professional standards applied and level  
of assurance
we performed a limited assurance engagement in 
accordance with international standard on assurance 
engagements 3000 (revised) ‘assurance engagements 
other than audits and reviews of historical financial 
information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse gas 
emissions, in accordance with international standard 
on assurance engagements 3410 ‘assurance engage-
ments on greenhouse gas statements”, issued by the 
international auditing and assurance standards board. 
greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent 
uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowl-
edge used to determine emissions factors and the 
values needed to combine emissions of different gases. 
a limited assurance engagement is substantially less in 
scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in 
relation to both the risk assessment procedures, 
including an understanding of internal control, and the 
procedures performed in response to the assessed 
risks. consequently, the level of assurance obtained in 
a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower 
than the assurance that would have been obtained had 
a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
our independence and quality control
we have complied with the code of ethics for 
professional accountants issued by the international 
ethics standards board for accountants, which includes 
independence and other ethical requirements founded 
on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, confidentiality 
and professional behaviour. the firm applies interna-
tional standard on quality control 1 and accordingly 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements. our work was carried out by 
an independent multidisciplinary team with experience 
in sustainability reporting and assurance.
understanding reporting and measurement 
methodologies
the selected data in scope needs to be read and 
understood together with the accounting principles, as 
set out on pages 28-29 of this report, which lundbeck 
management is solely responsible for selecting and 
applying. the absence of a significant body of 
established practice on which to draw to evaluate and 
measure non-financial information allows for different, 
but acceptable, measurement techniques and can 
affect comparability between entities and over time. 
factbook
impact
introduction
3
31
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
assurance report
work performed
we are required to plan and perform our work in order 
to consider the risk of material misstatements of the 
selected data. in doing so and based on our profes-
sional judgement, we:
• made inquiries and conducted interviews with 
lundbeck’s management with responsibility for 
management and reporting of the selected data, to 
assess reporting and consolidation processes, use of 
company-wide systems and controls performed;
• checked data on a sample basis to underlying 
documentation, and evaluated the appropriateness 
of quantification methods and compliance with the 
accounting principles;
• conducted analytical review of the selected data 
and trend explanations submitted by all reporting 
entities for consolidation at group level; and 
• evaluated the obtained evidence.
management’s responsibilities
management of the lundbeck group is responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal 
control over information relevant to the preparation 
of the selected data that is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
• establishing objective accounting principles for 
preparing the selected data; 
• measuring and reporting the selected data based on 
the accounting principles and evidencing the 
selected data; and
• the content of the lundbeck’s sustainability report 
2020 and accounting principles.
our responsibility
we are responsible for:
• planning and performing the engagement to obtain 
limited assurance about whether the selected data 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error;
• forming an independent conclusion, based on the 
procedures performed and the evidence obtained; and
• reporting our conclusion to the management  
of lundbeck.
copenhagen, 4 february 2021
pricewaterhousecoopers
statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab 
(cvr no. 3377 1231)
lars baungaard
state authorized public accountant
torben jensen
state authorized public accountant
32
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
lundbeck sustainability report 2020
h. lundbeck a/s
ottiliavej 9
2500 valby
denmark
corporate compliance & sustainability
tel. +45 36 30 13 11
compliance@lundbeck.com
www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability
cvr number 56759913
