2020
corporate 
responsibility 
report
people make places
ar 2020
iss case stories
contents
iss at glance
 2 our core story
 3 our strategy and business model
 4 our global footprint
 5 regional performance
 7 letter to our stakeholders
our approach
 9 our ambition
 10 sustainable development goals
 11 our framework for corporate responsibility
 12 mitigating risks and challenges
 14 key sustainability events in 2020
 16 focus on compliance
people
 18 reaching our full potential
 23 health and safety
 26  overview of 2020 people performance
planet
 27  helping to protect our environment and 
climate
 30  overview of 2020 planet performance
profit
 31 competing on fair terms
 34 data protection in iss
 37 internal controls and assurance
 38  overview of 2020 business integrity frame-
work and activities
additional information
 39 independent auditor’s assurance report
 41 reporting principles and compliance
 42 our performance and targets
 45 gri disclosures
 52 united nations global compact (ungc)
21  rozita khamis: patients are always no. 1
33  pure space: enabling people 
to fully connect with places
25  kevin hosking: bringing a personal 
touch of safety
35  speak up: no tolerance 
of sexual harassment
29  fossil-free: supporting vattenfall’s 
sustainability strategy
22  iss netherlands: how hiring for diversity 
and inclusion makes the world work better
36 zero tolerance: business integrity
cr report 2020
our core 
story
making the world work better 
starts with our belief in creating 
a fair and inclusive society.
we take care of, and provide 
opportunity for people, helping 
them to develop themselves. 
we do this because we know 
our people can and do make 
a difference. we believe that 
people make places and places 
make people. 
iss helps to protect and 
maintain places – buildings 
and the assets inside them. we 
help our customers minimise 
their impact on the planet by 
reducing their consumption 
of energy, carbon and water 
and cutting their production of 
waste, including food. 
we bring all of this to life through 
a unique combination of data, 
insight and service excellence.
we are placemakers
we believe that people make places and 
places make people. from strategy through 
to operations, we partner with customers to 
deliver places that work, think and give. they 
choose us because we create, manage and 
maintain environments that make life easier, 
more  productive and enjoyable.
our people care about the people they 
support, always adding a human touch to 
create places that deliver and delight. every 
iss person in every customer facility is one 
of us – trained, equipped, motivated and 
working to high standards.
working with customers day by day, side by 
side, we come to understand every aspect 
of the user experience. we deploy data, 
insights and knowledge to develop innovative 
strategies and intelligent solutions to meet 
the intricate realities of service delivery. this 
helps us manage risk, reduce cost and ensure 
consistency.
as a global company with a heritage of fairness, 
equality and inclusion, we empower all of our 
people to deal with problems and opportu-
nities when they arise. we see it as our job to 
help our customers achieve their purpose. 
whether it is hospitals healing patients, 
businesses boosting productivity, airports 
transferring passengers or manufacturing sites 
producing goods, we’re there to help.
people make places and places make 
people. we know that when we get things 
right, it enhances lives and makes the world 
work better – and that is what drives us.
our purpose
connecting people  
and places to make the  
world work better 
our value proposition
placemaking solutions that contribute to 
 better business performance and make life 
easier, more productive and enjoyable – 
 delivered to high standards by people who 
care.
our ambition
global leader in ifs 
#1  globally in cleaning
people who go the extra mile and 
care about the people they support
our commitment to high 
standards in all aspects of delivery
high
standards
intelligent solutions based on our knowledge 
of every aspect of the workplace experience
insight
insight
people who go the extra mile and care 
about the people and places they support
our commitment to high standards 
in all aspects of delivery
intelligent solutions based on 
our knowledge of every aspect of 
the workplace experience
iss at a glance
2
iss at a glance
our 2025 ambition
our market
our strategy 
and business 
model
on 16 december 2020, 
we launched a refreshed 
strategy, oneiss, confirming 
our key account strategy 
and our ifs business model, 
but acknowledging that our 
historic execution has not been 
satisfactory. as a result, we will 
sharpen our focus further around 
prioritised customer segments 
with accelerated technology 
investments, country and 
business unit exits and a new, 
globally aligned operating model. 
we have been on a journey 
for some time, simplifying our 
business, sharpening our focus 
and reallocating capital and 
resource to our core. oneiss will 
see us complete this journey, 
through creating a stronger, 
simpler, and closer iss.
oneiss
a refreshed strategy with a new operating
model. geared towards supporting all our
stakeholders and achieving our 2025
ambition.
stronger
• the most respected global leader in ifs
• #1 globally in cleaning
• investing in central functions to drive 
excellence in the way we work
• building world class technology
simpler
• key account strategy underpinned
• sharper commercial focus
• aligned structure, processes and ways of 
working
closer
• working together to deliver for our 
customers
• collaborating to grow our business
• building our collective culture as oneiss
oneiss will allow us to achieve our purpose 
– connecting people and places to make 
the world work better.
our journey in the 
coming years
sharpen strategic focus
• stronger definition of customer 
segments
• country and business unit  
divestment of additional  
dkk 4 bn annual revenue
accelerate investments
• become technology leader and 
make  technology, data and insights 
clear competitive advantages and 
driver of future offerings
• increased digitisation focus and 
investment, including in it security
 global operating model
• alignment of country structures
• strengthen global support and 
excellence functions
• culture and incentives to support 
oneiss
customers
to achieve industry 
leading customer 
 engagement
shareholders
to deliver a top 
quartile tsr 
relative to peers
society
to be a sustainability
leader on the
djsi europe index
colleagues
to achieve  industry-
leading  employee 
engagement
our strategic choices
customers
• key accounts 
in  prioritised 
segments
core services
       cleaning
technical
food
       workplace
delivery model
• self-delivery
• managed solutions 
(outside our core 
services)
geographies
• strategic fit
• risk profile
• value impact 
(ability to reach 
scale)
our market blue
usd
400bn
iss’s share
 ~ 2%
attractive key account market with 
 significant room to grow
• continued strong demand for ifs with 
covid-19 increasing demand for cleaning
• demand for workplace management solu-
tions based on the increased importance 
of the office as a  driver of corporate culture 
and collaboration
iss at a glance
3
iss at a glance
our global 
footprint
iss is a global company 
operating business in 60 
countries worldwide. 
with the launch of oneiss, we 
will sharpen our strategic focus 
even further by exiting three 
additional countries – portugal, 
russia and taiwan – and a 
number of business units. 
these divestments will support 
our journey to become a 
simpler, stronger and closer iss.
continental 
europe
40%
of group revenue
(3)%
organic growth
130,838
employees
northern 
europe
32%
of group revenue
(8)%
organic growth
63,699
employees
asia &  
pacific
18%
of group revenue
(3)%
organic growth
131,576
employees
americas
9%
of group revenue
(19)%
organic growth
20,857
employees
discontinued 
operations
4.2 dkkbn
revenue divested/
to be divested
partnership
countries
(1% of group revenue)
iss at a glance
4
iss at a glance
continental europe
27.6
dkkbn
revenue
 40 %
of group  
revenue
 61 %
key accounts
 (3) %
organic growth
 (8) %
organic growth
  130,838
employees
63,699
employees
northern europe
 22.6
dkkbn
revenue
 32 %
of group  
revenue
 74 %
key accounts
regional 
performance
revenue by country
dkk million
germany
5,493
switzerland
5,286
spain
4,221
france
3,152
turkey
2,691
belgium & luxembourg
2,647
austria
1,920
netherlands
1,297
italy
575
poland
292
lithuania
55
latvia
5
revenue by country
dkk million
uk & ireland
10,290
denmark
3,593
finland
3,070
norway
2,965
sweden
2,724
iss at a glance
5
iss at a glance
asia & pacific
 12.4
dkkbn
revenue
18 %
of group  
revenue
64 %
key accounts
(5) %
organic growth
(19) %
organic growth
 131,576
employees
20,857
employees
regional 
performance
americas
6.6
dkkbn
revenue
9 %
of group  
revenue
67 %
key accounts
revenue by country
dkk million
australia & new zealand
3,968
hong kong
2,409
singapore
2,137
indonesia
1,760
india
1,247
china
849
other
15
revenue by country
dkk million
usa & canada
5,882
mexico
726
other
27
iss at a glance
6
iss at a glance
letter to our stakeholders
at iss we want to make a difference 
to the success of our customers and 
the lives of our employees. in 2020, 
that difference was made abundantly 
clear during the global pandemic 
– and our key role as a partner in 
connecting people and places to 
make the world work better will 
continue to be central in the post-
covid recovery.
along with the entire world, iss was affected by 
the global coronavirus pandemic in 2020. during 
this challenging year, our focus was squarely 
on business continuity for customers and the 
health and wellbeing of their employees and our 
own. with our own people at customer facilities 
– trained, equipped, motivated and working to 
high standards – we have been able to offer 
customers a unique level of transparency and 
agility in responding to the crisis. our customers 
have been overwhelmingly positive about our 
response to the covid-19 crisis, which has show-
cased the strength of our self-delivery model as 
well as large outsourcing partnerships with a 
single point of contact for facility management. 
making the world work better
as a global leader in facility services and 
workplace management, we play a key role in 
society. when the pandemic radically changed 
our ways of working, our people – cleaners, 
technicians, chefs and other service profes-
sionals – contributed significantly to keeping 
workplaces and essential infrastructure running, 
including hospitals, pharmaceutical production 
facilities, and data centres. the societal impact 
of iss frontline colleagues every day is central to 
our value proposition to customers. 
in 2020, we addressed the full range of customer 
needs around the workplace during the pandem-
ic. with our back to work concept, we provided 
a complete set of solutions for protecting the 
workplace against infection, redesigning places to 
meet social distancing requirements and helping 
customers scale up or scale down their on-site ac-
tivities. focus on cleaning and hygiene increased 
significantly among customers. to meet this de-
mand, we introduced pure space, an iss product 
that leverages technology and data to evidence 
cleanliness, troubleshoot the risk of contamination 
and influence the right behaviour. above-base and 
project work revenue on key accounts increased 
organically by 11% and 14%, respectively, driven 
by deep-cleaning and disinfection.
strategic focus  
on key accounts confirmed
in 2020, our retention rate for key accounts 
was 93%. our long-term, mutually beneficial 
partnerships with key account customers are 
particularly resilient in tough times. organic 
lord allen of kensington kt cbe
chair
jacob aarup-andersen
group ceo
growth for key accounts was (4.3)% vs. (10.8)% 
for non-key accounts. in 2020, we won a new 
5-year integrated facility services (ifs) contract 
with a large international industry and manu-
facturing customer corresponding to approx. 
1% of group revenue. we also won, expanded 
and renewed contracts with major players in 
banking & professional services, healthcare, and 
transportation & infrastructure.
it is with these key account customers that our 
value proposition resonates most strongly. facility 
management and workplace services, including 
globally leading cleaning solutions, have become 
more important to customers’ strategic agendas. 
long-term key account partnerships are more 
likely to be built around ifs and a mutual aim to 
attain excellence through quality, efficiency and 
compliance. that results in greater value for every-
one – our customers, our people, our investors 
and society at large. 
sharpening our focus with oneiss
in response to an unsatisfactory financial perfor-
mance in recent years, we launched a strategy 
refresh in december 2020. the oneiss strategy 
confirms our key account focus and ifs business 
model while sharpening our approach to select 
customer segments, accelerating technology 
investments, and introducing a new globally 
aligned operating model. these changes will 
allow us to use our global scale to drive superior 
value for all our stakeholders. in the process, we 
will become the most respected global leader in 
integrated facility services and strengthen our 
position as global number one in cleaning. 
executive group management (egm) saw signif-
icant change as well. we said goodbye to group 
ceo jeff gravenhorst at the end of august 2020 
after 18 years in the business. on behalf of iss, 
we want to extend once more our special thanks 
to jeff for his lasting achievements – he has built 
iss at a glance
7
iss at a glance
the foundation upon which our new strategy will 
launch us into the future. a new strengthened 
egm was announced in december to deliver 
on the oneiss strategy and transformation. 
the team comprises a strong mix of seasoned 
internal talent and external additions with 
diverse backgrounds, broad expertise and new 
capabilities, and will ensure we deliver on the 
goals and ambitions of our oneiss strategy. 
our financial performance
with the dual impact of coronavirus and malware 
attack, 2020 was a year without precedent in 
terms of financial performance. full-year organic 
growth was (6.5)% and 2020 was thereby only 
the second year in our 119-year long history with 
negative growth. the loss of revenue was driven by 
lockdowns and significant restrictions in all major 
markets, particularly impacting our food services. 
adjusted for restructuring and one-off costs of dkk 
3.5 billion, our operating margin came in at 0.5%, in 
line with our latest financial outlook. restructurings 
were part of our response to the pandemic along 
with certain actions targeting our operational chal-
lenges to prepare the business for the future. free 
cash flow was dkk (1,794) million impacted by our 
operating losses but supported by strong focus on 
collections and strict investment discipline. 
in spite of an exceptionally difficult year, we have 
laid the groundwork for a stronger financial 
performance in the future, including through 
our oneiss strategy, which will ensure we 
strengthen our execution. 
the post-covid global ifs leader 
with the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on 
workplaces, partnership with a strong, integrated 
facility management provider has become more 
important than ever before. our role in these 
partnerships is not just to deliver world-class 
services but to serve as a key strategic adviser 
to customers in how to bring their real estate 
strategies and workplace cultures to life. 
as we move towards a post-covid world – hope-
fully taking big strides in that direction in 2021 
– this strategic relationship will only increase in 
importance. the role of the workplace in attract-
ing and retaining talent will only increase, but now 
the concept of where we work has broadened. 
according to our workplace study, up to 65% 
of participants are expected to follow a partially 
hybrid remote model post-pandemic. customers 
are grappling with how to bring employees back 
into the workplace while also establishing new 
ways of working that seamlessly connect e.g. 
corporate offices with the home base to ensure 
people are healthy, happy, and engaged. 
technology will play a key role in our ability to 
bring the workplace into the post-covid era. our 
ambition is to become the world’s best, tech-en-
abled facility services company. we are therefore 
increasing investment in our digital capabilities 
and it architecture while accelerating roll-out of 
customer-facing tools. improved collection and 
use of data and insights from across the globe 
will drive better-quality outcomes for customers, 
which includes providing them with even more 
value from the integration of our services.
with continued strong demand for integrated 
facility services – in particular cleaning – in-
creased focus on the workplace as a driver 
of corporate culture and collaboration, and 
ongoing needs to reduce costs, the market for 
outsourcing will grow in the years ahead. we are 
well-positioned in an attractive usd 400 billion 
key account market, where our modest market 
share of 2% leaves plenty of room for growth. 
in 2021, iss is in a unique position to further 
bring to life our purpose – connecting people 
and places to make the world work better – and 
continue to strengthen our role and responsi-
bility in society, for the duration of this global 
pandemic and far beyond.
health and safety – a key priority
our focus on health, safety, environment and 
quality (hseq) initiatives keep all stakeholders 
top of mind, from customers and suppliers to 
employees and partners. safety is our highest 
priority and across the group we’re working
tirelessly to ensure that our people go home 
safe to their families after a productive workday. 
tragically we suffered three work-related fatali-
ties in 2020 (three in 2019). this is unacceptable. 
we are deeply affected by the fatalities and the 
impact this has on their families, friends and col-
leagues. we have investigated the incidents to 
ensure we determine the root causes and take 
corrective actions so that they are not repeated. 
in the past decade, we have reduced our lost 
time injury frequency (ltif) by over 80%. the 
continuous improvement has been driven by 
our systematic approach and focus on hse risks 
across the organisation.
our commitments
we remain committed in our support of the 
united nations (un) global compact as we have 
been since 1999. we continuously align our 
strategy and operations with the ten principles 
of the un framework. we are committed to the 
un guiding principles for business and human 
rights and, in terms of climate change, com-
mitted to reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
related to our operations. in last few years, we 
have specifically focused on strengthening our 
due diligence systems in order to implement 
the ‘protect, respect and remedy’ framework 
in accordance with un guiding principles on 
business and human rights.
in iss, we welcome the increased focus on
transparency and the principle of ‘knowing and
showing’ the full scope of our non-financial
responsibilities.
thank you for your continued support.
yours faithfully,
lord allen of kensington kt cbe
chair
jacob aarup-andersen
group ceo
8
iss at a glance
our 
ambition
iss aims to lead our industry by example, always 
seeking to positively influence the market 
wherever we operate. as a global business 
employing hundreds of thousands of people in 
a number of countries, we realise that we have 
a huge opportunity to influence the lives of our 
employees and our customers for the better, and 
that we play an important role in society. we want 
to drive business and societal outcomes together 
by focusing on our core competencies: diversity 
& inclusion, social mobility, and dignity.
a high degree of diversity and inclusion has 
always been pivotal for iss. we aim for a culture 
where everyone feels valued, engaged and 
respected, and where everyone is treated fairly 
and equally. we employ people from more than 
175 countries around the world, from a myriad 
of cultures, speaking a symphony of languages 
and we want everyone to contribute with their 
unique skills and perspectives.
iss is an integrator – providing many people 
their first jobs in a new country, in their lives, in 
their new career, and more notably providing 
people the dignity to be part of the society they 
live in, to support their families that depend on 
them and to help progress in their life journey. 
we are a social mobility engine that provides peo-
ple the opportunity to better their lives through 
their work experience and training, so they can 
come closer to their career and life aspirations.
a people company is built upon respect. we 
treat all our employees with dignity and help 
them grow their self-esteem. and we work 
determinedly on enhancing society’s recognition 
of all people.
these three competencies of diversity & 
inclusion, social mobility, and dignity are 
supported by a guidance framework of policies, 
rules and manuals. the main reference point 
for these is the united nations global compact, 
and we explain how these are embedded in the 
organisation in the following pages, which we 
have based around the following structure:
people: safe working conditions  
and human rights
planet: reducing our impact  
on the environment and climate
profit: compliance with sound  
business standards
we bring to life how we meet these challenges 
through case studies. these cases demonstrate 
our policies in action, and thereby our engage-
ment with and impact on stakeholders and 
society.
we must be aware of and respond to what is 
happening where we operate, whether these 
be global trends or more specific to a single 
country or culture. the materiality assessment 
underpins the management of our responsible 
practices along the entire value chain and we 
interviewed key internal stakeholders as part 
of the process. the findings were validated and 
confirmed internally and externally.
the materiality assessment was updated in 2020 
and will be again next year (see page 12).
at iss we have a great ambition. 
we want to be the difference in 
the lives of our employees, our 
customers and the world. we 
help our people have a positive 
effect on the places that they 
work and live in. everyday, we 
take every opportunity to make 
the world work better.
our approach
9
our approach
sustainable 
development 
goals
  sdg 5
achieve gender equality and empower  
all women and girls
iss is a multicultural company and embraces 
and encourages diversity. women make up 
nearly half our workforce. female representation 
in management, leadership development and 
graduate programmes has high priority and is 
progressing. our diversity policy continues to 
bring results, with more initiatives to identify 
female candidates and promote women to more 
senior roles. training programmes educate, 
enforce and embed policies against harassment 
and discrimination.
  sdg 8
promote sustained, inclusive and sustain-
able economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all
minimum wages, the right to organise and a 
safe working environment are basic standards at 
iss. as a dedicated people company, we invest 
significantly in developing employees at all levels 
of our organisation. we take continuous action 
at all levels to eradicate injuries and fatalities. 
we have zero tolerance of forced labour, child 
labour, modern slavery and human trafficking 
in our operations and this is strictly enforced 
through governance controls, including audits.
  sdg 10
reduce inequality within  
and among countries
as one of the world’s largest private employers, 
iss provides the economic foundation for many 
individuals and families around the world. there 
is an increasing number of refugees in our 
workforce, as well as people with mental and 
physical disabilities, social challenges or little 
academic education. we offer employees the 
chance to develop their skills through education 
programmes, increasing their job and career 
opportunities. 
  sdg 13
take urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impacts
iss is committed to continuously reducing any 
negative impact on the environment due to our 
operations, and we also work with customers 
to help them reduce their own environmental 
footprint. we work at our customers’ premises, 
meaning we gain insight into their performance 
and use this knowledge to help them manage 
and reduce their impact and reach their targets. 
  sdg 16
promote peaceful and inclusive societies for 
sustainable development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, account-
able and inclusive institutions at all levels
we aim to eradicate all forms of discrimination 
and unethical behaviour through the iss code 
of conduct and the global people standards. 
these policies are the basis of our learning 
tools and programmes, including an extensive 
onboarding course in which all new employees 
are trained in our way of working and our 
values. corruption and bribery are illegal and 
against our values, and we promote the speak 
up system to allow employees to raise concerns 
on these matters, anonymously and without fear 
of reprisal.
everything we do at iss is 
matched and aligned with the 
current guidelines for responsible 
behaviour. in addition to the un 
global compact, the un guiding 
principles for business and 
human rights, and the women’s 
empowerment principles, we have 
decided to contribute to five of the 
sustainable development goals: 
5) gender equality, 8) decent 
work and economic growth, 10) 
reduced inequalities, 13) climate 
action and 16) peace, justice 
and strong institutions. these 
constitute the foundation of the 
change we seek to make.
we will continue to support sdg 
5 achieve gender equality and 
empower all women and girls 
and sdg12 ensure sustainable 
consumption and production 
patterns.
our approach
10
our approach
our 
framework 
for corporate 
responsibility
how we are building  
a resilient business
our corporate responsibility framework is based 
on our business fundamentals: our values, our 
purpose and our business strategy: oneiss. to 
ensure good corporate governance, we have 
implemented a number of policies and stan-
dards which are outlined below.
as a global business, we work continuously 
to fully integrate and embed them into local 
operations. we pay particular attention to the 
group strategy for health, safety, environment 
policies
• iss code of conduct
• iss corporate responsibility policy
• group hseq management system
• iss safety rules
• iss tax policy
• iss global people standards
• iss supplier code of conduct
• iss supply chain policy
group health, 
safety, 
environment 
and quality 
and corporate 
responsibility
continental europe
northern europe
foundation
our values – honesty, entrepreneurship, responsibility and 
quality, and the iss leadership principles
our purpose - connecting people and places to make the 
world work better
asia & pacific
our strategy – oneiss
americas
and quality (hseq) and corporate responsi-
bility (cr), which are essential for reaching our 
business goals.
the responsibility for implementing group strate-
gy into each country’s local strategy is designated 
to an hseq manager. countries report to group 
hseq and cr, which helps the countries achieve 
the common group goals by reviewing their 
performance and actions. group hseq and cr is 
responsible for driving the strategy, monitoring 
and reporting on hseq and cr and works closely 
with the executive group management. 
our desired outcomes are: 
• ensuring a healthy and safe work  
environment;
• driving a responsible supply chain;
• reducing our environmental footprint;
• mitigating risks through internal education;
• building strong leadership capabilities.
policies are available here
our approach
11
our approach
mitigating 
risks and 
challenges
proactive development
as an employer, a business partner and a cor-
porate citizen, iss is responsible for mitigating 
risks. we use our knowledge to take meaningful 
action in a constructive and transparent way. we 
are proactive and we are continuously striving to 
meet the latest challenges.
we focus on strengthening compliance in our 
own supply chain and, as a service provider, we 
are also increasingly asked by our customers to 
help them improve their working conditions and 
their impact on the environment. we support 
the creation of a level playing field globally in all 
aspects of sustainability.
our speak up system is a key element of our 
efforts to expose and deal with wrongdoing 
in any aspect of our business. it is a channel 
designed to encourage people to report serious 
and sensitive concerns while guaranteeing their 
protection from reprisals for complaints made in 
good faith. more details on this programme can 
be found in our case study on page 35.
the risks, impacts and actions related to the 
un global compact principles on responsible 
business are presented in the overview, below 
and on page 13.
mitigating risks is a vital part 
of our corporate responsibility 
efforts. risks can damage our 
business, employees, customers 
and society in general, but when 
managed well risks can also 
create opportunities.
significance of iss economic, social and environmental impacts
significance to iss stakeholders
 environment
 social
 governance
 prevention of pollution
 climate change
 sustainable use of resources
  sustainable 
consumption
 responsible marketing
 income generation
 management composition
 risk management
  civil and 
 political rights
 supply chain management
 anti-corruption
 handling of incidents
 social dialogue
 fair competition
  personal development opportunities
  health and safety
  labour standards  
(child labour/forced labour)
  working conditions
  employment conditions
  economic and social rights
 discrimination
  local community 
involvement
 education
low
low
high
high
our approach
12
our approach
risks
impact
actions
given the large number of employees around the world, com-
plying with anti-corruption rules may pose a risk. although 
bribery and corruption are illegal and against iss policies, we 
acknowledge that we cannot always prevent breaches of rules 
or legislation.
foul play by just one of our 378,946 employees somewhere 
in the organisation can seriously harm our company at a 
corporate level. adverse effects could include financial costs, 
corporate liability, and reputational damages with the po-
tential to destroy business opportunities. corruption affects 
society by e.g. endangering the rule of law and destabilising 
economic growth.
our global standards are part of the training for all iss 
employees. enforcing the anti-corruption and bribery rules 
requires constant focus and the commitment from our top 
management is unambiguous. local management must 
work actively to implement the standards. we monitor and 
ensure that each case of non-compliance gets escalated and 
treated seriously.
reducing our environmental footprint is a clear ambition 
in iss. we manage two different risk categories: our own 
operations and our customers’. as for our own operations, 
consistent reporting and coordinated initiatives remain a chal-
lenge. in relation to our customers, it is a challenge to pursue 
the highest standards on their behalf.
with our global reach, improving resource productivity will 
have a significant impact on the environment by decreasing 
the use of water, energy and materials. when we  transfer 
our standards to customers’ businesses, the impact will 
grow accordingly.
based on a systematic approach we aim to achieve con-
tinuous improvement in quality and performance. we set 
standards and targets for improvements, and measure and 
report on our performance. credible and effective manage-
ment of environmental and climate-related risks are part of 
our value proposition to our customers.
as a global organisation our people have numerous interac-
tions every day. this tests our ability to respect human rights, 
particularly in regions affected by instability and weak law en-
forcement. we have identified three main areas posing a risk: 
child labour, forced labour and right to privacy. they reflect the 
vulnerability of the people we interact with.
breaching the rights of vulnerable people is particularly 
problematic: their exposed situation is worse, and feeling 
defenseless they may not claim their rights. influenced by 
local sub-cultures, this could also impact people in general.
we recognise that certain individuals and groups require 
increased awareness and attention to protect against 
potential abuse. our policy on safeguarding children and 
vulnerable people is being implemented via a thorough pro-
gramme. it is part of our onboarding programme, training 
of top management and leaders and also included in our 
global people standard. our work on privacy is detailed on 
page 34.
our policy is to ensure that slavery and human trafficking 
are not taking place in any part of our business and our supply 
chain. we recognise that certain categories of our supply chain 
carry higher risk of child and slave labour. here, we specifically 
seek to secure adequate risk controls.
people who become part of slavery or human trafficking 
usually do not know their rights. they are victims of a  cruel 
business exploiting vulnerable humans. apart from the 
human costs, the negative societal and economic conse-
quences are significant.
iss is committed to help eradicate slavery and human traf-
ficking; hence we have a systematic and proactive approach 
to ensure this. we conduct internal audits to verify our stan-
dards to manage these risks. in relation to our supply chain, 
we require self-assessments and carry out audits to verify 
our suppliers’ labour standards and performance.
the management of working conditions and supply chain 
risks are becoming more important as compliance with inter-
national standards grows. operating in unstable regions with 
limited legislation can be challenging to enforce iss global 
standards which impose decent working conditions.
as we operate a global company with 378,946 employees 
and managing a vast number of sub-contractors and suppli-
ers every year, we directly or indirectly impact  labour rights 
for a significant number of people.
working with private sector partners as well as civil society 
and labour organisations, we seek to promote labour rights 
both globally and locally. we support the uni global union’s 
12 fundamental principles and we manage labour rights on 
the foundation of these shared goals.
13
our approach
key 
sustainability 
events 
in 2020
january
iss uk joins the european chicken 
commitment
iss uk signs the european chicken com-
mitment, which calls for better treatment of 
chickens. it comes after last year’s pledge by iss 
uk to source cage-free eggs by 2025. iss uk is 
committed to working closely with suppliers in 
a series of aspirational targets to source goods 
in an ethical and sustainable manner, with key 
regard to animal welfare. over the last decade, 
iss uk has pioneered sustainable and ethical 
practices within its food services businesses. 
iss impact on local communities recognised 
by iaop and the rockefeller foundation
iss wins an impact sourcing influencer award 
for providing career and development oppor- 
tunities for underserved populations. the global 
impact sourcing award (gisa) evaluates and 
recognises organisations that intentionally hire 
and provide career development opportunities 
to people who otherwise have limited prospects 
for sustainable employment. impact sourcing 
can provide the start to a meaningful career and 
upward social mobility.
february
iss recognised among iaop’s  
best of the global outsourcing 100
iss receives special recognition for being at the 
very top of the global outsourcing 100 (go100) 
ranking year after year, and for leading the 
outsourcing industry. the go100 is released 
every year by the international association of 
outsourcing professionals (iaop) and highlights 
the ‘best of the best’ in the outsourcing industry.
march
iss hong kong recognised as caring 
company for eighteenth year in a row
hong kong’s caring company scheme was 
launched in 2002 with the aim of cultivating 
good corporate citizenship. it is specifically 
geared to building strategic partnerships 
among businesses and non-profit organisations 
to create a more cohesive society. iss was 
recognised for the eighteenth year in succes-
sion for the company’s commitment to caring 
for the community, our employees and the 
environment.
september
iss global hosts global digital cleanup week 
to reduce co2 emissions
iss marks world cleanup day by hosting a 
worldwide digital cleanup week within the 
company called drive to 100 environmental 
campaign. employees were urged to delete 
old emails, junk folders and obsolete computer 
files, which use up large amounts of energy and 
contribute to carbon emissions.
iss taiwan wins labour safety award
the labour safety award honours businesses 
that have a longstanding commitment to 
maintaining a friendly working environment 
with low occupational accident rates that helps 
ensure the health and safety of their employees. 
iss was selected for its focus and implemen- 
tation of health and safety policies and training, 
occupational accident prevention facilities, 
workplace health management and promotion, 
and occupational accident investigations and 
follow-ups. 
iss australia partners with woollahra 
to advance enterprise opportunities for 
australia’s first people
iss awards woollahra/sk nyiyaparli a contract 
of supply to service the fmg christmas creek 
camp in western australia. woollahra is a 100% 
aboriginal-owned company and the contract 
reflects the ongoing commitment of iss in 
delivering on indigenous engagement and our 
important role in improving employment and 
enterprise opportunities for australia’s first 
people.
iss hong kong participates  
in good employer charter
iss hong kong signs the good employer char-
ter, a government campaign which recognises 
employers who adopt an enlightened corporate 
culture, introducing employee-caring measures 
and promoting work-life balance. iss is also 
named a family-friendly good employer for our 
work in adopting family-friendly employment 
practices.
iss uk gains bitc responsible champion 
award for its jointforces@iss employability 
programme
iss uk receives the business in the community 
(bitc) responsible champion award (unipart 
outstanding employment category) for its 
armed forces employment programme. the 
jointforces@iss employability programme was 
set up in 2017 and has supported more than 
300 service personnel with career advice and 
internships to develop their skills and careers, 
and help them transition from the military to the 
civilian workplace.
our approach
14
our approach
october
iss awarded platinum sustainability 
rating from ecovadis
for the second year in a row, iss is awarded a 
platinum rating in the ecovadis sustainability 
rating, maintaining its position in the top one 
percent of all assessed companies. ecovadis is 
the world’s largest and most trusted provider of 
business sustainability ratings. the assessment 
described iss as demonstrating ‘an advanced 
sustainability management system that covers 
all four themes under review’.
iss maintains position  
as the top facilities management (fm) 
brand in the uk
iss uk & ireland takes first place in a survey 
of fm service providers in the uk by i-fm, 
retaining a position held since 2016. i-fm is an 
online resource for information about facilities 
management in the uk, which produces a 
guide to the major players in the uk facilities 
sector.
iss sweden named environmental company 
of the year at the clean bright awards
iss sweden receives the environmental 
company of the year award for contributing in 
an exemplary, inspiring and active way to the 
industry as a whole developing sustainably. 
iss had shown that it has clearly integrated 
sustainability issues into its business strategy 
and was taking long-term responsibility for its 
own impact on the industry, society and the 
ecosystem.
november
iss ireland named winners  
in health & safety excellence award – 
facilities management
iss ireland is recognised as the leader in the 
facilities management category at the inau-
gural health and safety excellence awards in 
ireland. the award was for iss’s #ichoose2bsafe 
campaign, which aims to ensure everyone thinks 
of safety as a core value and chooses to be safe; 
stopping unsafe work and reporting near-hits to 
prevent accidents.
december
iss austria’s country manager ranks  
at the top of leadersnet assessment  
of leaders responding to covid-19 crisis
iss austria’s country manager, erich steinreiber, 
becomes crisis manager of the year in the 
service category, after 23,000 online voters and 
a specialist jury ranked 300 austrian leaders for 
their response during the covid-19 pandemic. er-
ich was chosen for his flexibility and adaptability. 
iss austria wins the facility/security 
services sector for seventh time  
at best recruiters
iss austria is named the best recruiter in the 
facility / services sector for the seventh year in 
a row by best recruiters, the largest recruiting 
study among german-speaking countries. iss 
austria was praised for its successful and profes-
sional recruiting policies. the company was also 
ranked 10th out of 500 in the new category of 
‘austria’s most crisis-proof companies’.
iss commits to setting a science-based 
target as part of the science based targets 
initiative (sbti)
iss will work to set a science-based emission 
reduction target aligned with the sbti’s target- 
setting criteria as part of the private sector’s 
role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the 
initiative was set up to help pioneering compa-
nies lead the way to a zero-carbon economy, 
boost innovation and sustainable growth, and 
drive governments to take bolder action. 
15
our approach
focus on 
compliance
operating model
to meet our customers’ needs for compliance, 
efficiencies, transparency and consistency of 
service performance across our global portfolio, 
iss ensures a clear line of sight all along our oper-
ating model, from group to regions to countries 
to customer sites, where we deliver our services.
it is key to have alignment and consistency in 
our organisation. this is supported by a well-de-
fined set of business fundamentals across iss, 
including our values, our purpose and leader-
ship principles, supplemented by mandatory 
policies and processes.
our performance on business integrity and 
good business practice is monitored by group 
internal audit, using an elaborate set of 
assurance activities. group hseq and cr also 
perform audits against the iss global people 
standards, the group hseq manual, the iss 
safety rules and the iss code of conduct. 
escalation of operating issues
our escalation policy ensures proper and timely 
escalation of serious incidents in order to make 
the right decisions and actions for both for iss 
and its customers. the escalation policy ensures:
• all serious incidents that could have a significant 
impact on the activities, employees, customers, 
financial performance or reputation of a 
customer or of iss are escalated immediately;
• appropriate emergency response planning 
and management are in place to address 
serious incidents; and
• the accountability of country, regional and 
group managers as well as key account 
managers and global account directors for 
duly and timely escalation of serious incidents.
the escalation policy also makes clear that 
when there is doubt over whether an incident is 
serious or not, it should be escalated regardless 
so it can be properly managed. immediate esca-
lation shall take place before further assessment 
of the situation is made.
time is of the essence and escalation cannot 
await thorough investigations and long reports. 
the manner of initial communication is by 
phone to provide the high-level details of the 
incident, which will allow appropriate actions to 
be commenced as early as possible. subsequent 
communication will normally be less time-sensi-
tive and is therefore preferably done in writing, 
unless otherwise agreed  case-by-case.
the escalation policy and framework is reviewed  
and tested annually.
in addition, iss has a speak up policy and 
system to facilitate the reporting of serious and 
sensitive concerns. please see page 35.
travel and expenses policy
the iss travel and expenses policy was updated 
in 2019 and is applicable and mandatory for 
all employees. iss will pay for and reimburse 
reasonable and necessary expenses incurred 
in relation to business activity, whether such 
activity involves travelling or not. the following 
fundamental principles apply:
• the purpose of the expense incurred must  
be business related;
• incurring private, non-business-related 
expenses on the account of the company is  
a breach of the policy;
• always use good judgement when incurring 
business expenses;
• employees are responsible for ensuring that 
travel plans are reasonable, realistic and 
support the company’s business activities;
• travel should only be undertaken when 
necessary. employees must always consider 
alternatives such as video and web confer-
encing or conference calls before deciding to 
travel.
before any booking takes place, employees must 
seek written approval for the trip from their line 
manager. in order to protect our employees 
when they travel on company business, all 
bookings must be made via our travel agency 
egencia.
our updated travel and expenses policy has 
led to better governance of business travel 
expenses, a better work-life balance for our 
employees, as well as reducing the company’s 
carbon footprint due to a decrease in overall 
business travel.
new code of conduct  
and data protection training
in 2020, iss introduced a new code of conduct 
training programme for frontline staff. the code 
of conduct is the overarching guidance for 
behaviour by anyone working for, supplying or 
representing iss. it is part of our employment 
terms and is supported by mandatory e-learning 
based training modules for all staff, available in 
over 20 languages. 
the new training programme sets out 10 
behaviours and actions that are required of  
our employees. for more details, see page 31  
(profit introduction).
our customers depend on us to 
effectively manage their health 
and safety and environment 
(hse) risks as well as human and 
labour rights when we operate 
inside their sites. our strict 
internal controls ensure we 
always maintain our standards 
in all locations. this focus on 
compliance creates value for our 
customers – in short, it is sound 
business.
our approach
16
our approach
so far, 106,365 employees have completed the 
frontline code of conduct programme and 
26,223 have undertaken the support staff code 
of conduct training.
our other new important training programme 
introduced this year involves data protection. ev-
ery employee with an iss email address will have 
to complete the training every year. you can find 
more about this in the section on protecting 
personal data in iss on page 34.
anti-corruption  
& sanctions compliance
we are in the process of finalising an update 
to the iss anti-corruption policy, which will 
introduce clearer and stronger guidelines on 
gifts and entertainment.
we have also developed a new sanctions com-
pliance policy and standard, which is to ensure 
iss complies with the various sanctions in place 
against countries and individuals around the 
world. we are looking to expand our screening 
options, which will enable us to check whether 
customers and employees are present on any 
sanctions list and to avoid dealings with any 
countries or individuals under sanction.
supplier compliance
as well as holding ourselves, our business and 
our employees to account for the compliance 
of our policies and processes, we also hold our 
many valuable suppliers worldwide to the same 
high standards. we focus on where the risks 
are and establish close relationships with key 
suppliers and clients in order to implement our 
policies, standards, knowledge, processes and 
solutions.
these risks include governance and policies, 
unethical behaviour, freedom of association, 
workplace health and safety, conditions of 
employment and work, child labour, environ-
mental protection, subcontracting, financials 
and contract compliance.
the key stakeholders we engage with
employees
relation with designated  manager and annual appraisal
customers
ongoing dialogue to meet expec tations and feedback  
from annual customer experience survey
investors
close dialogue through road shows, conference calls,  
investor meetings and announcements
suppliers
increased dialogue to ensure a responsible and strong supply chain,  
to the benefit of both parties. this engagement is carried out  
on a continuous basis during the year
unions
constructive interaction with international works councils,  
unions and employee representatives.  
quarterly with the ewc and semi-annually with uni
media  
and ngos
proactive and constructive  communication with media and ngos  
on a broad variety of platforms
17
our approach
reaching our 
full potential
before 2025, all employees will be offered train-
ing, because we want every one of our employees 
to develop and grow during the time they spend 
at iss. as such, we work with two elements: 
knowledge and actions. knowledge is gained from 
unique world class training material developed 
specifically for iss employees. but knowledge 
only leads to change when it is transformed into 
actions. therefore, all our training materials also 
include concrete suggestions on how employees 
can act in their everyday lives at work and at 
home. that is the way we make a difference to the 
lives of our employees, our customers and indeed 
the societies we operate in.
focus on education
we see ourselves as more than just a job 
provider. we know that we can make a positive 
difference in the world we have operations in, if 
we develop and nurture our people during the 
years they spend at iss. it is our ambition that 
anyone who works or has worked at iss should 
be able to make a difference in their everyday 
lives. we want to be a catalyst of change and a 
starting point of positive impact on the world. 
this is because we know that people make plac-
es and places make people. when we succeed 
in making our employees grow they are able to 
contribute to our customers and societies, thus 
helping to make the world work better.
the global learning management system at 
iss is called mylearning. it is a multi-function 
platform which supports the deployment and 
tracking of over 1,700 global and country-spe-
cific e-learning modules along with almost 
800 training videos. it is accessible to all iss 
employees – from executives and country lead-
ers to frontline staff – anywhere in the world, no 
matter where they work.
the platform allows country organisations to 
assign, track and store evidence for on-the-job 
training, skills, licences, certifications and quali-
fications, and has a classroom management 
tool for automating invitations and marking 
attendance at formal classroom-based training 
sessions. it is cloud-based, which means our 
frontline team members do not need to have 
company network access, and it is completely 
mobile-friendly, with an intuitive interface for 
easy access through smartphones, tablets and 
computers by users who may not be familiar 
with using online tools.
as one of the largest employers 
in the world, we understand that 
we have a unique opportunity 
to change the lives of our 
employees for the better, during 
their years at iss. we believe 
that education is the enabler 
of that change, which is why 
we strive to offer industry-
leading training to every one 
of our 378,946 employees. by 
educating our employees and 
suggesting concrete ways in 
which they can act, we create 
a positive ripple effect, not just 
within our growing iss family, 
but also to the people that they 
touch and their families. 
since its formal launch in asia-pacific in 2015, 
mylearning’s use across the organisation has 
continued to grow. in 2017, approximately 
100,000 e-learning modules were completed 
by mylearning users; this figure now stands at 
over 4.5 million to date, with over 1.7 million 
completions in 2020 alone.
on a survey of end-users, 96% or more of 
respondents agreed that mylearning was easy 
to use, made it easy to access a range of training 
opportunities, and made it easy to access 
training at any time.
mylearning can also automate personalised 
training assignments based on a team mem-
ber’s role, location, customer and country.  
this helps to ensure all team members are prop-
erly trained, safe and compliant when perform-
ing their job. key focus areas of standardised 
global mylearning training includes the iss 
code of conduct, information security, data 
protection, iss escalation policy and position-ap-
propriate hse (such as driving safety, waste 
management and office safety). each iss country 
organisation is also encouraged to develop local 
training to support their local needs. 
our ambition is to provide multi-language 
literacy, numeracy and core it skills training as 
free online courses for all team members to 
enable our employees to change their lives for 
the better.
mylearning lms
392,457
active user accounts
covering 
47 countries 
across europe,  asia-pacific 
and the americas
available in over
12 languages
iss e-learning content in up to
27 languages
people
18
people
leadership development
we put a lot of emphasis on leadership at iss 
and we aim for high quality and consistency 
across our entire organisation. we develop 
our leaders through group-wide iss university 
programmes that are focused on driving:
1
leadership development;
2
business excellence;
3
service culture;
4
effective on-boarding.
our ‘leading the iss way’ programme facilitates 
clear and structured feedback, which allows 
leaders to gain insights into their personal lead-
ership style, strengths and development areas. 
we also have an intensive 12-month course 
designed for our future leaders called ‘lead-
ership mastery’, which provides them with the 
platform to step into senior leadership positions 
as the business develops and grows.
the growth of key accounts is central to our 
strategy. our key account management 
certification programme ensures that we have 
the right people with core business acumen 
managing and improving our services to cus-
tomers. to further advance this agenda in 2020, 
we introduced a site manager programme, 
which equips our leaders managing sites with 
business acumen and leadership skills that help 
them manage customers effectively and build 
engaged and driven teams.
service culture
we regularly survey our employees on how 
engaged and enabled they are and, more 
importantly, what we can do better to drive 
their full engagement. we work continuously to 
improve engagement, which in turn increases 
people’s overall sense of purpose in the delivery 
of our services. we see a clear correlation 
between employee engagement and customer 
satisfaction, making them key drivers of financial 
and operational performance.
one of the learnings from our employee surveys 
is the positive impact of the ‘service with a 
 human touch’ programme, which focuses on 
our frontline employees. it is our game- changing 
cultural programme, which communicates 
our purpose and translates customer value 
propositions into concrete service behaviours for 
thousands of service professionals.
the programme has been deployed across 
the iss world in 47 countries, with more than 
200,000 employees taking an active part in 
developing their own service behaviours and 
finding their purpose.
onboarding programme
we take great pride in how we introduce new 
people to the iss world, ensuring that they are 
empowered to make the world work better. our 
onboarding framework supports every new per-
son that joins us and is a holistic journey, which 
takes place over three months from the hiring 
date. it has been designed to help a new hire 
with cultural integration, ensure that they have 
the right tools and equipment for success from 
their first day, and provide ongoing support and 
training during their first three months about 
who we are, our customers, our safety culture 
and the expectations of their role. the onboard-
ing journey is completed when the new hire and 
line manager meet to discuss performance.
covid-19 and iss’s response
during 2020, covid-19 unfortunately disrupted 
lives, impacted livelihoods and businesses all 
over the world. iss took various steps to man-
age the outbreak from our people perspective 
to the handling of customers.
even with all the efforts, especially from health 
care professionals around the world, in 2020 
we unfortunately lost 50 employees across the 
world to covid-19 related sicknesses.
iss first became aware of the covid-19 outbreak 
through our escalation process when we were 
alerted by our operations in china in late decem-
ber. we issued our first global health alert soon 
afterwards to ensure all our employees globally 
were informed about the risks of the virus and 
we introduced strict control measures, such as 
hand hygiene, personal protective equipment 
(ppe), social distancing and contact tracing.
in the following months, as we gained greater 
knowledge of the steps being introduced in the 
asia-pacific region against the virus, we were 
able to quickly share this information and best 
practices with our operations in europe and 
the rest of the world. we initiated our global 
emergency response organisation (gero) 
and, in each country, our country emergency 
response organisations (cero). gero coor-
dinates responses in each cero, monitoring 
the situation and sharing practices across the 
different regions.
iss continues to issue health alerts, provide 
guidance and training to all employees and 
communicate the latest policies and protocols 
through our health, safety and environment 
(hse) app. we are also coordinating with 
19
people
we conduct internal audits to verify that we 
manage these risks in our operations. we recog-
nise that certain categories of our supply chain 
carry a higher risk of child or slave labour and 
so, in 2017 we implemented a new supply chain 
policy and iss procurepass, to ensure strict 
adherence within supply chains on principles of 
good corporate governance.
diversity and inclusion
as a global company and one of the world’s  
largest private employers, we strive to create a truly 
inclusive culture in which our employees can be 
their authentic self at work. we work closely with our 
customers to collectively meet our d&i aspirations. 
we are committed to empowering our employees 
to meet their full potential. the board and executive 
group management (egm) recognise the impor-
tance of promoting diversity within management 
levels with policies regarding inclusive practices.
we have always aimed for an inclusive culture 
where everyone feels valued, engaged and 
respected, and where everyone is treated fairly 
and equally. we provide the environment for 
people to be respected, to learn and get new 
skills which in turn advances social mobility: 
when people grow at iss, everyone wins.
iss is a catalyst for social integration – we pro-
vide many people with their first job, help them 
settle in a new country and support their lifelong 
learning and career plan. we are passionate 
about providing people the dignity and respect 
to contribute to the society in which they live, to 
support their families and dependents and to 
help them navigate their life journey.
we know that we as a company have a great 
responsibility, and a great opportunity to change 
the lives of our employees in the years they 
spend at iss. we believe that education is the 
enabler of that change, which is why we offer 
certified training to every one of our 378,946 em-
ployees. we aim to create a positive ripple effect. 
by educating our employees in craft and life skills 
we create a momentum for wider change. we 
call this iss journeys. before 2025 all employees 
will be offered training to upgrade their skills in 
languages, internet skills and computer skills, 
arming them with the tools to begin their journey.
in 2020, we strengthened our diversity and
inclusion requirements in our global people
standards to ensure our countries develop 
action plans for a balanced mix of diversity, for 
the development and advancement of ethnic 
minority employees and for mentoring pro-
grammes. in addition, we enhanced our focus 
on diversity and inclusion, including awareness 
training, global best practices sharing, global 
alignment and implementation. additionally, a 
global d&i target has been defined, aiming to 
achieve at least a 40% gender balance within all 
leadership roles by 2025 – a goal approved by 
the executive management board and the board 
of directors. while gender equality will initially 
be our primary focus, our ambitions go beyond 
gender and we will implement various initiatives 
emphasising the three dimensions: 
• fairness & equality at work;
• diversity of thought;
• places that foster inclusiveness.
in order to improve the gender balance in man-
agement positions at iss’s global head office, we 
continue leveraging our diversity policy, which 
defines a number of initiatives, including our 
recruitment policy, requiring us to short-list at 
least one female candidate in all searches for 
vacant positions. we also continuously develop 
our succession planning, which is aimed at iden-
tifying female successors, and table the matter of 
women in leadership at iss for discussion at least 
once a year at egm level. furthermore, it is our 
policy to ensure strong representation of women 
in various iss leadership development and 
graduate programmes across the group and at 
global head office. the board target of achieving 
at least 40% gender balance on the board in 
2020 was achieved with the election this year.
across our organisation as a whole, we have 
a nearly equal 50% split between women and 
men in the workforce. we are also leveraging 
our diversity policy to increase the number of 
women in management-level positions. the 
policy contains a number of initiatives, including 
the requirement to short-list at least one female 
candidate in all internal and external searches 
for vacant positions. 
iss has always had a high degree of diversity 
and inclusion. in denmark, over 40% of our 
workforce have an ethnic background other 
than danish. in spain, over 5.5% of our 30,633 
employees are people with disabilities and we 
aim to increase this to 6.1% by 2023. in hong 
kong, we partnered with secondary schools and 
ngos to provide training, career opportunities 
and buddy support for young people with 
special educational needs.
we also actively identify female candidates 
for our leadership programmes. at our last 
global leadership conference in 2019, we had 
30% female representation and 40% female 
participation in our 2020 leadership mastery 
programme.
our customers at the site level to ensure our 
covid-19 measures and procedures are aligned.
we have very clear policies in place to ensure 
our employees and contractors are fully aware 
of the symptoms of the virus and what to do if 
there is a suspected case. anyone suspected 
of being infected should not come to any work 
sites and they must carry out a series of checks 
before any return to work is allowed. we have a 
contact tracing procedure where managers are 
responsible for tracing an employee’s contacts 
across colleagues, suppliers and customers and 
we provide that information to health authorities 
where it is appropriate and useful.
in addition, iss has implemented temperature 
checks, hand sanitisers and strict use of ppe 
where required. through signs, posters and 
sanitising stations we are stressing the impor- 
tance of hygiene measures and social distanc-
ing to ensure safety is a priority for all our em-
ployees, contractors and customers. across the 
world we have also developed varied solutions 
focused upon educating our employees in the 
new ways of working driven by the pandemic 
situation – both to ensure their safety and 
well-being as well as to translate our service for 
our customers under these new circumstances. 
uk modern slavery act
our policy is to ensure that slavery and human 
trafficking are not taking place in any part of our 
business and in any part of our supply chain. 
this is consistent with our code of conduct, 
corporate responsibility policy, supplier code 
of conduct and global people standards, which 
covers, among other areas, pre-employment 
checks, zero tolerance for forced and compul-
sory labour, the right to privacy, and child labour.
20
people
at a major hospital in singapore, iss 
ensures every surface and ward – including 
operating theatres – are spotlessly clean, for 
the safety of patients and staff. behind this 
huge effort is a dedicated 550-person team.
“patients are number one in healthcare. 
that’s why we’re here – to make sure the 
environment is clean and safe for them,” 
says rozita khamis, assistant director of 
iss’s housekeeping teams at a top health-
care customer.
this may sound simple, but cleaning a hos-
pital that treats over 1 million patients a year 
requires a highly coordinated team, with a 
strong sense of purpose and responsibility.
“i choose healthcare cleaning because i 
want to make a difference,” says rozita. 
she joined iss in 2016 after many years 
of working in the healthcare industry. her 
experience was essential when covid-19 
first reached singapore. rozita’s team had 
to react fast. general wards were converted 
to isolation wards; empty space was made 
available for patients; and completely new 
cleaning routines and workflows were 
introduced – all in a matter of days.
“the key was to make our people feel safe 
so they could do their jobs effectively,” says 
rozita. “as leaders, we were on the ground 
with them and set up new routines to check 
on their health, such as temperature checks. 
many people felt a little cut-off due to social 
distancing, so we set up a whatsapp group 
where everyone could chat, ask questions 
and feel part of the team.”
to ensure our teams were prepared and 
safe, they got refresher training in the use 
of personal protective equipment, infection 
control requirements, and procedure 
compliance. but, equally importantly, they 
also got the emotional support they needed 
from rozita and the rest of the management 
team.
a strong believer in the personal touch, 
rozita knows every member of her team 
personally and wants everyone to have the 
chance to develop in their work. “cleaning is 
not rocket science,” she says. “it’s the people 
behind it that make the difference.”
patients are always no. 1
rozita khamis:
“patients are number one in 
healthcare. that’s why we’re here 
– to make sure the environment 
is clean and safe for them.”
rozita khamis
assistant director of iss’s housekeeping teams
21
case study
how hiring for diversity 
and inclusion makes the 
world work better
iss netherlands:
the benefits of a diverse and inclusive 
workforce are vast and widely documented. 
“the mix of insights that comes from hiring 
people from different backgrounds can be 
hugely beneficial to companies,” says edwin 
van der pol, manager of social innovation 
at iss in the netherlands. “it brings about 
alternative ways of thinking and fresh 
perspectives that often lead to innovation.”
edwin and his team run the operational side 
of iss’s diversity and inclusion as a service 
offering, which involves initiating projects 
and opportunities for people who otherwise 
might have difficulties entering into – and 
staying in – the job market.
one such project in the netherlands is top 
academy, where iss works in collaboration 
with companies and special needs and 
secondary schools to provide vocational and 
practical education. top academy has huge 
value for everyone involved, and exemplifies 
the power of iss partnerships with cus-
tomers like pwc.
in 2019, more than 400 people were hired 
as part of iss’s diversity and inclusion 
programme in the netherlands. sultan 
was one of them. she supports iss food 
services, where her role involves organising 
the company lunch, ordering supplies and 
facilitating the catering process. sultan deals 
with mental health difficulties and anxiety, 
and benefits from the extra support her 
colleagues and managers can provide.
“iss gave me the chance to develop as a 
person and to develop my skills in catering,” 
says sultan. “when i needed assistance, 
my colleagues were always available to 
support me. iss also arranged a job coach 
to support me and my manager to ensure 
further development.”
the programme has been so well-received 
that it was awarded the rockefeller founda-
tion’s 2019 global impact sourcing award. 
edwin believes the programme’s success is 
fuelled largely by iss’s holistic approach.
“at iss, inclusion is a high priority. it’s so 
important that this approach is genuine 
and supported by all employees, not merely 
from the top down.”
“iss gave me the chance to develop as a 
person and to develop my skills in catering.”
sultan
part of iss’s diversity & inclusion programme in the netherlands
22
case study
health 
and safety
safety first
we have an obligation and a responsibility 
to ensure that our employees go home to 
their families, their loved ones and friends 
safely and as healthy as they were when they 
started their working day at iss. in the last 
ten years, we have established a systematic 
approach to drive this vision and ambition 
where safety is second nature and a natural 
part of our working culture.
our global hseq management system is the 
backbone of this approach. the integrated 
management system that was first imple-
mented in 2010 was updated to reflect the 
new iso standards in 2016 and was certified 
by our global certification partner, dnv gl, in 
february 2017. the integrated management 
system has now been certified in june 2019 
to the new iso 45001 standards. the group 
hseq management system is supported by 
iss global procedures and guidance notes. 
every country hseq management system 
must comply with the group hseq manual 
and global procedures. the scope of the iss 
group hseq manual includes all activities un-
der our operational control and also includes 
external suppliers that operate under our 
operational control.
the manual provides the framework for 
countries to develop their hseq manage-
ment system and to tailor it to their activities 
and the services they provide. systematic 
risk management is fundamental to effective 
hseq management. hseq management 
needs to be integrated into the operational 
process and also considered in any future de-
velopment projects. this systematic approach 
is mandatory for all our operating countries 
to comply with and sets the minimum bar for 
how we manage our risks in these areas.
an important aspect of the safety culture we 
embed in our organisation starts with the iss 
safety rules, which have become an integral 
part of iss safety culture since they were 
introduced in 2010.
with 378,946 employees, the iss safety rules 
align our behaviours when we carry out our 
daily tasks. the underlying philosophy of the 
iss safety rules is that there should be no gap 
between what we state and what we do. an 
important element is our commitment to an 
open safety culture where our employees feel 
secure in seeking advice and raising concerns. 
to facilitate this process, we have developed 
an animation film, living the iss safety rules, 
that is available on our website and social 
media. the safety of everyone depends on our 
common commitment to these rules.
to embed accountability and share best 
practices in our operations, we have also 
implemented a global hseq it tool, so our 
operations can report incidents, carry out 
investigations and take corrective actions to 
address the root causes. we have used the it 
system to create awareness in our operations, 
as reporting incidents, including near miss 
incidents, is a key component in creating 
awareness in our organisation. to encourage 
employees to report near miss incidents and 
hazard observations, we also launched an app 
for the it tool to make reporting and carrying 
out inspections possible using smartphones.
despite the impact of covid-19 in 2020 
(please see page 19), we continued our 
our hse vision is ambitious: 100
we want to be number 1 in our 
industry in terms of health, 
safety and environmental 
performance; operate with 0 
fatalities at our workplaces; 
and incur 0 serious incidents 
and occupational injuries at 
our workplaces.
quarterly me and you campaigns in all 
countries. our safety campaign focused on 
slips, trips and falls, stop, working at heights, 
and driving safely. our health and wellbeing 
campaign in june was heavily focused on 
reducing risks from covid-19 by addressing 
topics of hygiene etiquette, social distancing 
and hand washing.
the campaigns used posters produced by 
group hseq and cr that were translated into 
more than 20 languages. these were supple-
mented by bi-weekly toolbox talks,  facilitated 
by toolbox talk calendars that were also 
translated into 20 languages, providing our 
operations with topics and discussions for the 
talks.
we performed bi-monthly safety inspections 
for all our large global key accounts during 
2020. the inspections build accountability 
and transparency as results are reported 
directly into the global hseq it tool. at the 
same time, the inspections provide docu-
mentation that we are living up to the hseq 
requirements included in contracts.
all our processes require commitment from 
everyone, from our executive group man-
agement (egm) through to our colleagues 
delivering our services to our valued custom-
ers. we have embedded this commitment at 
management level; our egm have all signed 
personal safety action plans (psaps), and we 
start all our senior leadership meetings with a 
safety moment.
at middle management levels, we are also 
embedding psaps and creating safety 
ambassadors by asking our employees to be 
people
23
people
safety role models by, for example, holding 
the handrails when using the stairs, ensuring 
everyone uses their seat belts in the car and 
they do not hold their mobile phones while 
they drive.
our responsibilities also include the health 
and safety of our customers as we work 
side by side with them on a daily basis. if we 
instigate a strong safety culture amongst 
ourselves, this will also have a positive impact 
on our customers.
fatalities
we regretfully had three fatalities in 2020;  
in 2019, we had three work-related fatalities, 
while in 2018, we had one fatality. we are 
deeply affected by the fatalities and have 
investigated the incidents to determine the 
root causes and take corrective actions to 
ensure they are not repeated.
the fatalities occurred in denmark, germany 
and indonesia and were related to site safety, 
vehicle safety and working at heights. as 
per our group escalation policy, each fatality 
and serious injury is reported to our top 
management within 24 hours of occurring. as 
a result of the incidents, we have sent global 
safety flashes to the whole organisation to 
ensure we learn from the incident and take 
preventive actions.
improving the personal safety 
of our people
the lost time injury frequency (ltif) for 
2020 was 2.5 compared to 2.9 in 2019. this 
means we have reduced our ltif by over 
80% since our 2010 baseline of 13. lost work 
hours (lwh) is an important indicator of the 
general health and wellbeing of our employ-
ees. it is also closely linked to both operation-
al and financial gains. lwh decreased by 63% 
compared to the 2010 baseline, meeting our 
target of a 55% reduction. the total report-
able cases frequency (trcf) was under 6.5, a 
decrease of over 70% compared to the 2010 
baseline value of 23.
risk and due diligence
we perform services with different personal 
health and safety risk profiles depending on 
our customers’ activities and on the individual 
site. we have, for example, implemented a 
standardised site risk register that provides 
us with an overview of the hazards and 
risks at a site. as part of our due diligence 
process to ensure we understand and comply 
with our customers’ requirements, we have 
implemented a hseq compliance plan.
annual hseq action plans
each year, we build and distribute a group 
hseq and cr action plan with actions for 
each country to implement as part of their 
country hseq and cr action plan. one 
of the actions in 2020 is to increase and 
improve the reporting of near miss events. 
experience has shown repeatedly that most 
incidents are preceded by warnings or near 
misses. recognising and reporting near 
miss incidents can significantly improve 
worker safety and enhance an organisation’s 
safety culture. near miss reporting also 
creates an open culture whereby everyone 
shares and contributes in a responsible 
manner to their own safety and that of their 
fellow workers.
what we did in 2020
in addition to the global campaigns and 
toolbox talk calendars that were rolled 
out, we worked on streamlining the man-
datory e-learning modules in our learning 
management system, mylearning: the iss 
safety rules, hse e-learning, office safety 
and driver safety. in order to improve user 
experience.
furthermore, during 2020, we further devel-
oped the quality management system (qms) 
for the pharma sector. this qms is under 
the overall hseq management system and 
emphasises our commitment to our growth 
in the life science segment.
our systematic approach, including our 
management systems and processes and it 
tools, provides us the foundation to deliver 
hseq as a service at a global level, support-
ing our overall strategy to develop hseq and 
cr as a value proposition to our customers. 
this demonstrates that we have developed 
the capabilities and evidence to offer hseq 
and cr as a service to our existing and new 
customers.
24
people
over the last decade, kevin hosking worked 
his way up from mailroom assistant to 
health, safety, environment and quality 
(hseq) manager, using his personal drive 
to capitalise on iss career and training 
opportunities.
today, kevin is an hseq manager for iss 
specialised services in the uk. he manages 
43 sites, doing his part to foster a safety cul-
ture. “i love working with people. the best 
part of my job is that i get to meet people 
and build a trusting relationship,” kevin ex-
plains. “no matter who i’m working with, it’s 
important that i find a common language to 
create a safety culture. it’s about bringing a 
personal touch so that at the end of the day 
they actually want me to be on site.”
safety wasn’t always kevin’s area of 
expertise. he started his career at iss 
as a mailroom assistant at the london 
office of an international banking client in 
2010, having been made redundant at his 
previous job. “i just wanted to get back into 
work and iss gave me the opportunity to 
get back into work, and then the opportuni-
ty to further develop my career to where it is 
today,” kevin says.
at the beginning of his iss career, kevin 
had no previous health and safety expe-
rience or qualifications. “it wasn’t really 
something i had ever thought about, but 
iss is very health-and-safety focused, so it 
quickly became very important to me.” kevin 
signed up to be a safety champion and 
after completing a series of rigorous safety 
courses, became the safety supervisor on 
the account. on his journey from mailroom 
assistant to safety manager, kevin has re-
ceived two top employee recognition awards 
for his dedication to safety, professionalism 
and willingness to go the extra mile.
looking back on his career at iss, kevin 
credits support and hard work as the main 
factors of his success. “a lot of people 
supported me and really backed me. i’m an 
example that if you put a lot of work in with-
in iss, you’ll get 10-fold out of it. if you do 
put the hard work in, you will get noticed.”
bringing a personal 
touch of safety
kevin hosking:
“no matter who i’m working with, it’s 
important that i find a common language to 
create a safety culture. it’s about bringing a 
personal touch so that at the end of the day 
they actually want me to be on site.”
kevin hosking
health, safety, environment and quality (hseq) manager
25
case study
 overview of 
2020 people 
performance
subject
enabled by
activities
progress
health and safety
• iss safety rules
• group hseq and  
cr action plan
• the iss groups hseq 
management manual
• the iss group hseq and  
cr reporting manual
• hseq@iss-it system
• personal safety action plans for 
individual management members
• campaigns
• iss hse app
• fatalities: 3
• lost time injury frequency: 2.5
• decrease in lost work hours compared to 2010 
baseline: 63%
employee engagement
• engagement survey
• follow up on survey taken  
in 2018
• actions taken to follow up on the 2018 survey where 
230,824 employees responded
• the measures show continuous high performance 
with scores above four on a five point scale
leadership and training
• training and development 
programmes
• service with a human touch
• key account manager certification 
(kamc)
• leadership training programmes
• more than 200,000 employees completed the 
service with a human touch programme, more than 
1,500 completed the kamc programme, 23 people 
graduated from the leadership mastery programme
• front line employees received 3,523,217 hours of 
class room training in 2020, compared to 6,205,709 
hours in 2019. this is equal to 10 hours per person 
in 2020. subjects included health and safety, 
technical training, management, language training, 
leadership and supervisory, it, security and fire pre-
vention. white collar employees had 226,642 hours 
of training in 2020, compared to 310,100 hours in 
2019 and equal to 10 hours per employee
human rights and 
labour rights
• iss global people standards
• diversity policy
• formalised union and works 
council’s cooperation
• revised the global people standards 
to strengthen requirements on 
discrimination, diversity and inclusion
• further roll-out of procurepass as part 
of supply chain due diligence
• countries have completed self assessments against 
the new global people standards and developed 
action plans for full compliance
• with a workforce of 378,946 employees, we had 16 
cases of discrimination reported in countries and 
received 11 speak up cases involving harassment 
(please see access to remediation on page 38).
• held the european works council conference virtually
• continued uni global union collaboration
people
26
people
 helping to 
protect our 
environment 
and climate
strategy
climate change is increasingly affecting all of 
us – in terms of our weather, health, economy 
and general quality of life. iss is fully committed 
to delivering our services and carrying out our 
operations in an environmentally-friendly way. 
our employees, customers and investors expect 
greater transparency, engagement and evidence 
of environmental initiatives. it is clear that this is 
fundamental to our success and future growth. 
iss’s impact on the environment primarily comes 
from the use of cars and air transport, energy 
consumption in buildings, and water, chemicals 
and other resources used in delivering our 
cleaning services, which accounts for 50% of our 
commercial offerings.
our environmental policies are integrated with 
the overall business strategy to enhance our 
competitive advantage. at the same time, the 
environmental strategy must be flexible and scal-
able so we can adapt to changing circumstances 
in the future. the following are the guiding 
principles for the environmental strategy:
• being consistent with the iss values;
• being consistent with our ambition of 
 operational excellence;
• enhances our reputation;
• being manageable and measurable;
• being substantive and documented.
we did not identify any significant non-compliance 
with environmental laws and regulations in 2020.
beyond policy and pressure
our ambition at iss is to focus on how we can 
do more than just comply with environmental 
policies and pressures – we want to go beyond 
“eco-efficiency” to “eco-advantage”. we are 
already driving efficiencies in our operations 
that cut costs and mitigate risks, providing 
a competitive advantage and increasing the 
bottom line through:
• a systematic approach to identify potential 
for more efficient use of resources, lower 
emissions and cost optimisation;
• proactive mitigation of environmental risk;
• anticipation of our customers’ needs.
but it is not just a matter of cutting waste and 
becoming more efficient. we are embedding 
these environmental considerations fully into 
every aspect of our operations. we want to be 
recognised as an environmental leader and 
create significant value through these initiatives 
for our business, our customers and society as a 
whole. we are achieving this through:
• improving resource productivity (energy, 
water and material) and realising  
significant cost savings;
• better managing environmentally-driven 
business risk;
• enhancing the reputation of iss.
our targets
through more frequent reporting and tighter 
control quality over the last few years, we have 
improved the quality of our data reporting in 
the environmental area and we believe that it 
accurately represents our current footprint. 
from this, we have established meaningful and 
achievable targets:
• 5% reduction in electricity consumption (mwh/
revenue) over the 2018-21 period, based on 
2017 baseline data;
with the challenges presented 
by climate change growing 
every year, it is essential that we 
at iss reduce our impact on the 
environment, while helping our 
customers create sustainable 
workplaces through strategic 
advice and services.
cradle to cradle describes the use of mate-
rials in continuous cycles (as opposed to the 
usual linear system described as a cradle to 
grave system). cradle to cradle certified ™ is 
a globally recognised measure of safer, more 
sustainable products made for a circular 
economy. to receive certification, products 
are assessed for environmental and social 
performance across five critical sustainability 
categories: material health, material reuse, 
renewable energy and carbon management, 
water stewardship, and social fairness. a 
product is assigned an achievement level 
(basic, bronze, silver, gold, platinum) for 
each category. a product’s lowest category 
achievement also represents its overall certi-
fication level. the standard requires certifica-
tion renewal every two years.
at iss, we offer our customers the sure® 
range of vegetable ingredients-based, 
100% biodegradable cleaning products 
from diversey that have been awarded gold 
certificates by the cradle-to-cradle products 
innovation institute. in addition to the new 
cradle-to-cradle certification sure products 
are, where applicable, eu ecolabel certified.
the products in the sure range cover all 
routine and daily cleaning requirements for 
kitchens, building facilities and personal care. 
each has been formulated to deliver superior 
professional results while maximising safety 
and gentleness for people and the environ-
ment. the entire range is manufactured from 
environmentally responsible plant-based 
ingredients from renewable resources.
offering cradle to cradle products
planet
27
planet
• 10% reduction in car emissions from leased 
cars (g/km), over the four year leasing period 
based on 2019 data;
• 5% reduction in water consumption (m3/
revenue), over the 2018-2021 period, based 
on 2017 baseline data.
in late 2020, we committed to setting a 
science-based target as part of the science 
based targets initiative (sbti). iss will work to 
set a science-based emission reduction target 
aligned with the sbti’s target-setting criteria 
as part of the private sector’s role in reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. the initiative was 
set up to help pioneering companies lead the 
way to a zero-carbon economy, boost innovation 
and sustainable growth, and drive governments 
to take bolder action. this commitment is part 
of developing plans to hit net-zero carbon 
emissions. 
renewable energy
in 2020, iss purchased 6,639 mwh of renewable 
energy that is around 23% of total electricity 
consumption.
risk and due diligence
credible and effective management of our 
environmental and climate-related risks is part 
of our value proposition to our customers. 
we have adopted a systematic approach to 
achieve continuous improvement in quality and 
performance. we manage these risks as critical 
business activities, with standards and targets 
for improvement, and measures, appraisals and 
reports on performance.
there are two different risk categories: the 
impact of our own operations and the impact 
of our customers’. our customers’ operations 
are proving to be a new business opportunity 
as they are increasingly looking to improve per-
formance and impact. our role means we often 
know their offices and sites better than they do, 
because we are there every day throughout the 
locations and so we are able to provide unique 
insights into managing and reducing their 
environmental impact.
iss is at the heart of our customers’ activ-
ities and are always working with them to 
reduce their environmental impacts with 
processes and systems such as:
• the iss green offices programme:  
designed to reduce the impact of offices, 
sites and daily work practices on the 
environment. by changing people’s be-
haviour, we can use resources efficiently 
and dispose of waste responsibly, thereby 
reducing our environmental footprint.
• waste process: 
iss can directly influence the environ-
mental performance of our customers 
by managing waste from source using 
our onsite presence and influence over 
the supply chain. our ability to integrate 
sustainable best practice into the heart 
of client organisations has helped us 
regularly achieve recycling rates above 
80% and zero waste-to-landfill targets.
• audits:  
we can carry out energy and water 
audits to help identify resource consump-
tion and wastage. this helps identify 
operational and resource consumption 
saving projects. the audit process also 
supports our customers in achieving or 
maintaining their iso certification.
reducing our customers’ impact
planet – our way
ambition
our strategic ambition is to be recognised as an environmental leader, 
advocating for more sustainable actions, measures and goals.
enablers
environmental strategy: we work towards our goals of reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, use of water and waste production.
cleaning excellence: cleaning excellence is an operating process  
to identify continuous improvement in both service delivery and 
environmental impact. it is designed to significantly reduce the use  
of detergent and water.
important for iss
as people are our most valuable resource, we are responsible for pro-
viding a safe and secure work environment with the opportunity for all 
to achieve their personal and professional potential.
drivers
our environmental initiatives and activities are carried out through a 
systematic approach, whereby we identify potential for more efficient 
use of resources, lower emissions and cost optimisation. we proactive-
ly mitigate environmental risk and anticipate our customers’ needs.
impact on society
when we reduce our impact on the environment and climate, we con-
tribute to solving the global challenge of climate change and creating a 
sustainable world for future generations.
what’s next
we will continue to work with our stakeholders (employees, customers 
and suppliers) in reducing our impact on the environment through 
behavioural change and developing solutions to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions and resource consumption.
28
planet
vattenfall is one of the largest energy pro-
ducers in europe and owned by the swedish 
state. the company has a significant 
presence in germany and is in the process 
of transitioning from nuclear and coal power 
to green energy production. their ambitious 
goal, to achieve “fossil free living within one 
generation”, calls for a facility management 
partner with the same vision.
a partnership is born 
iss began working with vattenfall in 
germany back in 2015. “our first focus was 
to make sure our services were sustainable,” 
recalls benjamin simon, general manager for 
iss energy services in the berlin/hamburg 
region. since sustainability is such a crucial 
part of vattenfall’s business approach and 
strategy, benjamin’s team began to identify 
areas where they could incorporate the same 
thinking within the iss organisation.
powered by vattenfall
one of the areas of improvement they 
identified was the existing mobility solution. 
iss provides services at more than 300 
vattenfall sites in berlin alone, and they 
used a fleet of diesel-powered vehicles to 
travel back and forth between sites.
“we decided to convert our fleet from 
diesel-powered, mid-size cars to smaller, 
electric-powered cars, which we can charge 
at many of the vattenfall sites we service,” 
benjamin explains. “we also built our own 
charging station at our iss office in berlin.”
the go-to e-mobility experts
the shift to an e-mobility solution has had 
many tangible benefits for both companies. 
by converting a fleet of more than 20 
diesel-powered vehicles to fossil-free electric 
vehicles, the iss germany team was able to 
reduce co2 emissions by 42.2 tonnes per year.
the fleet has also provided a model for other 
teams within the iss and vattenfall groups. 
“our team runs the largest e-drive fleet in 
vattenfall globally,” says benjamin.
great for the environment 
and good for the bottom line
facility management often comes down to a 
price discussion, where the focus is on cost 
savings. but, as benjamin points out, you don’t 
have to choose between boosting the bottom 
line or improving the environment.
“we try to combine cost-savings with our 
sustainability objectives. the e-mobility solu-
tion is a great example of how you can do 
both. the e-fleet is both cheaper than the 
previous mobility solution, and it contributes 
towards the goal of a fossil-free future.”
supporting vattenfall’s 
sustainability strategy
fossil-free:
reducing co2 emissions 
by 42.2 tonnes per year 
with fossil-free electric 
vehicles
29
case study
 overview of 
2020 planet 
performance
subject
enabled by
activities
progress
co2 emissions  
from leased cars
reductions achieved through leasing 
more fuel-efficient cars and changes 
in driver behaviour
• driver safety e-learning that includes 
eco-driving
• continued leasing of more fuel- 
efficient vehicles
vehicle emissions decreased from 91,199
tonnes co2 eq. in 2019 to 70,084 tonnes
co2 eq. in 2020
co2 emissions  
from business travel
we encourage more online meetings 
to reduce air travel in particular
use of webinars
• emissions from business travel decreased 
from 21,263 tonnes in 2019 to 5,814 
tonnes in 2020. the decrease was due 
to the impact of covid-19 on travel 
restrictions and to the new travel policy 
and stricter governance on travel
• we continue to encourage online meet-
ings to limit travel
chemicals
we collaborate with suppliers to 
develop and test environmentally- 
friendly products and materials that 
also offer reduced costs in use and 
increased productivity
further integration of an it tool to pro-
pose environmentally-friendly solutions 
instead of traditional chemicals and 
tools
a reduction in 2020 of: 56,000 kg. waste; 
762,000 litres water consumed; and 
126,000kg. co2 eq. in ghg emissions. due 
to covid-19 and the restrictions, we used 
40% less concentrate products and used 25% 
more ready to use products such as hand gel 
and disinfectants. the restrictions also led to 
less usage of machinery resulting in less real 
water savings.
electricity (own)
mandatory certification according to 
the iss green offices programme
implementation of awareness and 
behaviour changing measures
in 2020, we consumed 29,133 mwh
of electricity compared to 39,903 mwh in 
2019; in 2020, we purchased 6,639 mwh 
of renewable energy . the reduction has 
also been due to covid-19 and divestments 
(non-material impact)
water (own)
mandatory certification according to 
the iss green offices programme
implementation of awareness and 
behaviour changing measures
in 2020, we consumed 207,071 m3 water,
a decrease from 307,758 m3 in 2019; the
decrease is due to improved awareness and 
the impact of covid-19 restrictions
planet
30
planet
competing 
on fair terms
our company strategy – oneiss – focuses on 
creating value for our shareholders through prof-
itable growth in a sustainable way, while at the 
same time optimising the customer experience. 
iss employees deal with customers and suppliers 
hundreds of thousands of times every day and 
we want these relations – as well as those with 
the financial community – to be based on sound 
practices. we have a number of comprehensive 
measures in place to ensure this happens.
10 basic behaviours
this year, iss has introduced a new training 
module as part of our code of conduct – the 
main employee guide on behaviour for 
anyone working for, supplying or represent-
ing iss. the new course sets out the ten rules 
of basic behaviour we require from all our 
frontline employees. they must:
1.
comply with the law and live by iss values;
2.
ensure when accessing a customer’s 
premises that they have secured permis-
sion to work there and have passed any 
vetting or security requirements;
3.
remember safety first;
4.
treat customers, colleagues and business 
partners with respect and fairness;
5.
always act in the best interests of iss and 
avoid conflicts of interest;
6.
ensure their personal appearance is tidy 
and professional at all times;
7.
not show up at work under the  
influence of alcohol or illegal drugs;
8.
use social media responsibly and  
apply common sense – do not bring  
iss into disrepute;
9.
always treat the property and assets  
of iss and of our customers with due 
care and respect;
10.
respect customer privacy and treat 
confidential information and personal 
data with the utmost care.
these ten expected behaviours expand our 
code of conduct and form the basis of the 
sound business practices that underpin all our 
dealings with our customers, suppliers and 
wider stakeholders. a comprehensive set of 
assurance activities are conducted by group 
internal audit to monitor our performance on 
business integrity.
tax: honesty and responsibility
at iss, we are committed to complying with all 
local and international tax legislation. paying 
taxes accurately and in a timely manner is a 
fundamental aspect of how we do business 
and a core part of our corporate values and 
leadership principles. we understand that taxes 
are an important way of contributing to many of 
the communities around the world we operate 
in, alongside the jobs, training, social benefits 
and career opportunities we also provide.
we always act with honesty and transparency 
in our relationships with all local authorities, 
including matters relating to tax. iss has zero 
tolerance towards avoidance of taxes, social 
charges or payroll taxes. in 2020, iss was ranked 
second for tax governance out of denmark’s 
top 100 companies by a danish tax governance 
rating body. the ranking was based on tax 
governance, transparency, use of tax havens 
and tax incentives as well as country-by-country 
reporting and dialogue with stakeholders.
the iss group tax policy ensures a common 
approach to the tax position within the iss 
group. it applies to all legal entities within the 
iss group and all employees of iss, particularly 
those involved in the preparation, oversight, 
management and approval of our tax positions. 
iss prepares and submits all legally-required 
tax filings and provides complete and timely 
disclosures to all relevant tax authorities. we 
also contribute views and input on the drafting 
of relevant tax legislation and respond proac-
tively to regulatory and other changes as soon 
as these are known.
in order to optimise the return for our share-
holders, iss manages and plans tax payments 
effectively within the framework of the relevant 
tax regulation. transactions between iss group 
companies are conducted based on arm’s length 
principles and in accordance with current oecd 
guidelines. the group tax policy and the group 
tax position, including how tax compliance 
and tax risks are managed and monitored, are 
reviewed annually by the board of directors.
in 2020, we added new accountability elements 
to the iss tax policy, which are rooted in 
corporate responsibility. this complies with the 
un sustainable development goals, particularly 
number 16 which is about peace, justice and 
strong institutions. we want to send a signal 
with our tax policy that we are a transparent and 
compliant corporate citizen that will help us to 
attract new talent in the future.
our ambition at iss is simply 
to be the world’s best service 
company. in order to achieve 
this, we must be competitive, 
but we want to compete fairly 
and have a positive influence 
on the global business 
environment. we do this by 
upholding the integrity of our 
business and ensuring complete 
financial compliance.
profit
31
profit
it is important to us to treat our employees 
fairly and equally in relation to pay and working 
conditions. in this regard, we will continue to 
support initiatives that ensure equal working 
conditions for all, that ensure employees receive 
the right salary and wages, and that the right 
taxes are paid. we will ensure that, at any given 
time, we are tax compliant, pay the taxes that 
the law dictates, and have good dialogue and 
cooperation with the tax authorities.
government structure 
explanation
iss a/s is a limited liability company regis-
tered under danish law and listed on the 
nasdaq stock exchange. management 
powers are distributed between the board of 
directors and the executive group manage-
ment board (the egmb). the members of 
the egmb are the group ceo and group 
cfo and form the management registered 
with the danish business authority. the 
group has a wider executive group man-
agement (the egm), which comprises nine 
corporate senior officers of the group in 
addition to the egmb.
performance awards 
supporting corporate 
responsibility projects
at our annual global leadership confer-
ence, iss rewards and celebrates countries 
which deliver extraordinary performance in 
organic growth, operating margin and cash 
conversion. in 2019, for the very first time, 
this reward was converted to a ‘cash award’ 
to be invested in a corporate responsibility 
project of the country’s own choosing. this 
change was made to encourage countries 
to pro -actively support projects that make 
a difference to the people we work with 
and the society we live in. for example, iss 
norway supports an organisation called ‘give 
a job’, which aims to change the perception 
of refugees from being problems to being 
resources. they want to help local businesses 
and communities see that refugees are 
professional people who can contribute to 
local society.
profit – our way
ambition
we are a competitive business, but we want to compete on 
honest, fair and equal terms. we aim to create value for our 
customers by allowing them to focus on their core business.
enablers
audit programmes: a comprehensive set of assurance activities are 
conducted by group internal audit to monitor our performance on 
business integrity and good business practices.
compliance: the code of conduct is the overarching guidance for 
behaviour by anyone working for, supplying or representing iss. 
building on this, we have adopted policies on competition law and 
anti-corruption.
important for iss
we intend to create value for our shareholders by maximising the cash 
growth from our business in a sustainable fashion over the shorter 
and longer term.
drivers
oneiss is about optimising the customer experience while driving cost 
efficiencies through the alignment of our organisation behind  
a set of common business fundamentals, and benefits of scale.
impact on society
as iss continues to be a prosperous and growing business, we impact 
many communities around the world through compliant ways of work-
ing and by paying tax and duties correctly and on time.
what’s next
we will retain our healthy pipeline of a growing number of national 
and international key account customers, and continue to service and 
support their businesses by creating and delivering on our compelling 
value proposition. we will work with our customers to develop healthy 
and productive work spaces, innovative solutions and apply our full 
range of concepts for creating value.
32
profit
pure space is a new iss product that ensures 
well-being, maintains hygiene and delivers 
confidence, so people can connect with the 
places they need to be in. with pure space 
you not only achieve a new, higher standard 
of hygiene, you also get the data you need to 
maintain cleanliness, troubleshoot risk of con-
tamination and influence the right behaviour.
there are 3 dimensions to pure space:
• well-being: pure space helps to keep 
people safe and healthy;
• hygiene: pure space reduces the chance 
of virus spread with a strategic approach 
to cleaning and disinfection;
• verification: a professional hygiene pro-
cess combined with the right individual 
behaviour will have a powerful impact on 
curbing contamination.
pure space is particularly important as 
companies consider how best to have em-
ployees working safely in offices during the 
covid-19 pandemic. pure space has been 
designed to repair the disruption between 
people and places caused by covid-19, so 
employees can feel they are returning to a 
safe work environment.
as the iss group chief operating office 
troels bjerg says, “companies need to 
re-establish the physical connection between 
people and places by bringing employees 
back to work environments that meet a 
higher standard of hygiene and disinfection 
control. companies want to restore the emo-
tional connection of employees by building 
confidence in the safety of the workplace.”
how pure space kept  
messe düsseldorf safe  
during covid-19
hosting a major event during a global 
pandemic requires expert planning and a 
comprehensive hygiene concept. in septem-
ber this year, iss helped messe düsseldorf, 
one of the world’s top trade fair organisers, 
keep their event safe and secure with the 
help of our new product, pure space.
pure space equals peace of mind. with over 
100,000 visitors and 350 exhibitors across 
twelve exhibition halls, messe düsseldorf is 
one of the city’s major events. but with the 
covid-19 pandemic, fear of contamination 
naturally created insecurities and doubts 
that could have prevented people from 
attending the trade fair. 
as the trade fair’s long-time facility services 
partner, iss worked closely with messe 
düsseldorf to restore visitors’ and exhibitors’ 
confidence and offer the highest level of 
safety by providing our product pure space.
enabling people to fully 
connect with places
pure space:
“we’ve taken inspiration from the years we have 
working in clean room environments, hospitals 
and healthcare organisations, where hygiene and 
disinfection are more important. with pure space we’re 
taking those requirements to the office environment.”
joseph nazareth
head of iss group health, safety and quality
33
case study
data 
protection 
in iss
the iss binding corporate rules (bcrs) were 
initially approved by the danish data protection 
agency in may 2018 and were updated by iss 
in 2019/2020 to ensure compliance with the eu 
general data protection regulation (gdpr) and 
internal compliance procedures. the bcrs en-
able iss to transfer personal data between iss 
entities in a safe and legally-compliant manner.
in november 2020, iss announced the new po-
sition of group data protection and compliance 
manager to help strengthen and enforce data 
protection compliance at the company. 
since the initial implementation of the iss data 
privacy management system in 2019, iss has 
continued to improve the internal functionalities 
and processes surrounding it. the system 
assists iss in maintaining and updating data 
processing activities, ensuring ongoing impact 
assessments of relevant systems, supporting 
data subject rights, and ensuring a fast and 
efficient approach to potential data protection 
breaches.
the iss data protection compliance programme 
also includes the continual review and creation 
of data protection related policies, standards 
and protocols to ensure an aligned approach to 
data protection throughout the iss group.
finally, data protection training has been 
expanded and streamlined across the organ-
isation. the training includes e-learning and 
in-person programmes and has been rolled out 
worldwide to all iss managers and to employees 
with access to personal data. all employees 
with an iss email address are required to take 
the relevant data protection training and it is 
mandatory to complete it every year.
we continually strive to improve iss’s internal 
processes and training activities to ensure the 
safety of the personal data we process on behalf 
of our customers and employees.
data protection is an important 
part of the iss compliance 
framework and is ensured 
through the iss data protection 
compliance programme.
profit
34
profit
iss employs a large workforce around the 
world and it is important to us to ensure all 
our employees are treated with dignity and 
respect. we do not tolerate any form of ha-
rassment or discrimination in the workplace 
and sexual harassment allegations are taken 
very seriously. our responses range from 
education and awareness campaigns to 
disciplinary measures and criminal charges 
for more severe cases.
in support of this policy is our speak up 
system, designed to encourage people to 
report wrongdoing related to the business 
which, due to the nature of the concern, 
cannot be reported through normal 
reporting lines. it is promoted throughout 
our global organisation to ensure that 
appropriate actions are taken to identify  
and stop any inappropriate behaviour.
for example, a number of iss employees 
in the head office of an iss country used 
the speak up system to report allegations 
of inappropriate workplace attitudes and 
actions by a minority of staff covering the 
2018-2019 period. the allegations were 
immediately investigated by group internal 
audit along with our business integrity 
committee. during their in-depth inquiry, 
including involvement of the country lead-
ership team, they conducted confidential 
interviews with all parties involved, includ-
ing the accusers and the accused. they 
concluded that although what had occurred 
did not constitute sexual harassment, it 
was culturally inappropriate behaviour and 
corrective actions were taken.
as a result, workshops were held to ensure 
all staff in the office were aware of what 
behaviour is appropriate and what is not. 
the manager received an official warning, 
was made aware that such conduct did not 
align with iss values and was then assigned 
a leadership coach for further instruction.
in 2020, we have continued to develop the 
speak up system, which is now available in 
21 languages and localised for 33 countries. 
employees can access the system via phone, 
the web and now through a new app that 
was rolled out this year. we continue to 
encourage strong use of the speak up 
system from our employees and in 2020, we 
received almost 300 cases reported for the 
second year in a row.
no tolerance of  
sexual harassment
speak up:
35
case study
iss is committed to maintaining the highest 
standards of business integrity. we do not 
tolerate violations of our code of conduct 
and other key compliance measures at 
any level of our organisation. any such 
violations result in disciplinary action, and 
where criminal acts are involved we will not 
hesitate to file criminal charges and pursue 
our legal rights.
this year, fifteen cases in the scope of the 
speak up protocal have come before the 
business integrity committee including four 
related to misappropriation and/or embez-
zlement of funds. in australia, a routine, local 
expense audit revealed an unusually large 
volume of transactions and was consequent-
ly flagged as suspicious. at first glance, all the 
transactions appeared to be valid business 
expenses, but a closer inspection revealed 
some questionable activity.
the metadata of the pdf file used to submit 
the expenses showed it had been converted 
into a word document. changes had then 
been made to the document before it was 
converted back into a pdf file. this revealed 
suspected fraudulent expenses worth dkk  
1 million, made using a corporate credit 
card. the case was escalated to the police 
and filed as a criminal complaint.
in 2020, we introduced a new code of 
conduct training programme, which all 
employees who have joined the company 
since september will undertake. we are 
also in the process of finalising an updated 
anti-corruption policy, which introduces 
stronger guidelines for what constitutes 
gifts and entertainment for customers.
business integrity
zero tolerance:
36
case study
internal 
controls and 
assurance
internal controls  
and assurance
during 2020 gia performed a number of 
internal audits to provide assurance on the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the internal 
controls across the entire iss group, covering 
countries, contracts and key group functions 
and projects. while the integrity of financial 
reporting is a key audit focus, business integ-
rity and good business practices represent 
equally fundamental elements in the internal 
audits performed.
audit 
programmes
audits 
completed 2020
examples of  
key findings in 2020
a baseline audit programme that assesses 
the internal controls and compliance 
across 70 key control activities, with a 
view to ensure a strong foundation for the 
internal control environment across all key 
risks areas. this audit embeds cr issues 
such as code of conduct, discrimination, 
anti-corruption, health and safety, child 
labour and working hours.
18 baseline audits
evidence of gaps to the iss glob-
al people standards has resulted 
in countries strengthening 
compliance to people standards 
in relation to working hours.
a contract audit programme which as-
sesses the internal controls and contract 
compliance for key customer contracts. in 
terms of cr, the programme assesses the 
controls and processes for e.g. employ-
ee screening, training of new hires and 
performing of preventive maintenance 
programmes for critical equipment.
6 contract audits
need to strengthen our in-
duction processes for our own 
employees specifically around 
awareness to customer policies, 
along with strengthening the 
screening and onboarding con-
trols for subcontractors.
risk-based standardised  audit pro-
grammes are providing assurance on the 
effectiveness of internal controls related 
to financial reporting and compliance 
with internal and external rules and 
regulations. this covers pay-roll, hr and 
hse including over-time, timely payments 
and child labour as well as travel and 
entertainment expenses, and the account-
ing-to-reporting process.
13 risk-based audits
highlighted the strengthened 
processes needed for system 
implementations and roll out of 
the iss suite in countries, specif-
ically for fms and crm.
profit
37
profit
 overview 
of 2020 
business 
integrity 
framework 
and activities
subject
enabled by
activities
progress
behaviour by 
anyone working 
for, supplying or 
representing iss
code of conduct established in 2003 and revised 
in 2016. areas covered: personal conduct of em-
ployees; anti-corruption and bribery; compliance 
with competition laws; business partner relations; 
work place standards; corporate responsibility.
code of conduct is refer-
enced in all documentation 
of contractual relation-
ships: suppliers, customers 
and employees.
e-learning training module targeting support staff 
 available in 20 languages.
new e-learning training module targeting frontline staff 
available in over 20 languages.  training is for all employ-
ees as part of their onboarding.
competition law
competition law policy adopted in 2014. concerns 
risks such as: information sharing with competitors; 
market behaviour which might be perceived as price 
fixing; guidelines for participation in industry associ-
ations; how to handle inspections by authorities.
policy communicated and 
e-learning based training 
developed as part of code 
of conduct training.
in 2020, 106,635 frontline employees completed the 
frontline code of conduct e-learning module. 26,223 sup-
port staff completed the support staff code of conduct 
e-learning module.
anti- 
corruption
the iss anti-corruption policy was established in 
2010. it states:
• iss is against any form of corruption and bri bery 
and is committed to combat such practices;
• iss competes for business on fair terms and 
solely on the merits of its services;
• regardless of local practice, any personal 
payments, kickbacks or bribes between iss and 
customers, suppliers or public servants are 
strictly prohibited;
• it is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratu-
ities from business partners – unless customary 
in the environment, of modest value and serving 
a business purpose.
e-learning based training 
as part of code of conduct 
training. training of 
relevant staff, both as 
stand-alone requirements 
and as part of the training 
programme:
• iss advantage
• training repeated every 
second year
in 2020, 106,635 frontline employees completed the 
frontline code of conduct e-learning module. 26,223 
support staff completed the support staff code of con-
duct e-learning module.
contractual  
risks
established negotiation and contract process 
framework and contract risk assessment model 
(cram) 
web-based tool to assess 
contract risks. applied 
in the contract approval 
process.
cram updated in march 2019 and new cram standards 
rolled out making the use of cram mandatory for all key 
accounts contracts and contracts with annual revenue 
above 20 million dkk.
access to 
remediation
speak up system established in 2013. it is a 
reporting channel for raising serious and sensi-
tive concerns guaranteeing all persons making 
complaints in good faith protection from reprisals 
or retaliation.
in 2020, we continued 
our efforts in raising 
awareness of the policy 
and system; we increased 
the number of languages 
to enable more employees 
to report.
95% of cases reported through the speak up platform relate 
to matters which are resolved at a local level. for 2020, a 
specific reporting protocol was defined pertaining to work-
ing conditions of frontline employees during the covid-19 
outbreak. in 2020, 7% of reported speak up system cases 
related to covid-19 working conditions. in addition, 15 
speak up reports required investigation by group internal 
audit (gia) covering violations of labour regulations, senior 
management conflict of interest, ghost employee schemes, 
and employee embezzlement of funds. the reports contin-
ue to demonstrate the effectiveness of our efforts in raising 
awareness and reach of the speak up system.
profit
38
profit
independent auditor’s 
assurance report
to management and broader 
stakeholders of iss a/s
we have reviewed the 2020 corporate respon-
sibility report (‘the report’), which covers iss’ 
global activities from 1 january to 31 december 
2020, to provide limited assurance that:
• the performance data regarding ‘people’ and 
‘planet’ on pages 26, 30, 42, 43 and 44 in the 
report have been stated in accordance with 
the reporting criteria; 
• the report has been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of sections 99a and 
99b of the danish financial statements act 
(fsa) and the requirements of the un global 
compact communication on progress policy;
• the report has been prepared in accordance 
with the principles and reporting criteria 
defined in the global reporting initiative 
(gri) sustainability reporting standards (core 
level). 
we express a conclusion providing limited 
assurance.
management’s responsibility
management of iss is responsible for collecting, 
analysing, aggregating and presenting the 
information in the report ensuring that data are 
free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error. the iss ‘group health, safety, 
environment and quality (hseq) and corporate 
responsibility (cr) data reporting manual’ and 
the ‘group controlling accounting manual’ 
contain management’s defined reporting scope 
for each data type.
auditor’s responsibility
our responsibility is to express a limited assur-
ance conclusion based on our engagement 
with management and in accordance with the 
agreed scope of work. we have conducted our 
work in accordance with isae 3000, assurance 
engagements other than audits or reviews of 
historical financial information and additional 
requirements under danish audit regulation 
to obtain limited assurance about whether the 
selected cr data in the report are free from 
material misstatement. 
deloitte statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab 
is subject to international standard on quality 
control (isqc) 1 and, accordingly, applies a 
comprehensive quality control system, including 
documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, profes-
sional standards and applicable legal and regu-
latory requirements. we have complied with the 
independence and other ethical requirements of 
the code of ethics for professional accountants 
issued by fsr–danish auditors (code of ethics 
for professional accountants), which are based 
on the fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due 
care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
a limited assurance engagement is substantially 
less in scope than a reasonable assurance en-
gagement. consequently, the level of assurance 
obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would 
have been obtained had we performed a reason-
able assurance engagement. considering the risk 
of material error, we planned and performed our 
work to obtain all information and explanations 
necessary to support our conclusion. 
we performed online interviews with iss between 
december 2020 and february 2021. we have 
not performed site visits or interviewed external 
stakeholders. we have not performed any assur-
ance procedures on baseline data, economic or 
financial data. we have not performed assurance 
procedures on forward-looking statements, such 
as targets and expectations, or on individual case 
stories disclosed in the report. consequently, we 
draw no conclusion on these statements.
considering the risk of material error, we planned 
and performed our work so as to ob-tain all in-
formation and explanations necessary to support 
our conclusion. we used the iss ‘group health, 
safety, environment and quality (hseq) and cor-
porate responsibil-ity (cr) data reporting man-
ual’ and the ‘group control accounting manual’ 
together with gri reporting principles and criteria 
as an appropriate basis for our engagement. our 
procedures included the following:
• reviewing iss’ processes for determining 
material issues to be included in the report 
and challenging the material text statements 
in the report;
• reviewing the key processes, tools, systems 
and controls for gathering, consolidating 
and aggregating data at group level and 
performing analytical review procedures and 
obtaining additional explanations of selected 
data performance from group functions; 
• interviewing management staff across various 
group functions, including internal audit, as well 
as personnel responsible for data and reporting;
• obtaining relevant, available company 
documentation on a sample basis to verify the 
extent to which they support the information 
included in the report;
• evaluating the overall presentation of the 
report, including consistency of information; 
• reviewing the report for adherence to the 
requirements of sections 99a and 99b of the 
danish financial statements act (fsa) and 
the requirements of the un global compact 
communication on progress policy;
• reviewing the report for adherence to the 
gri principles for defining report content and 
ensuring report quality, as well as the gri 
standards disclosure requirements.
39
independent auditor’s assurance report
limited assurance conclusion
based on our work, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us not to believe that in all 
material respects:
• the performance data regarding ‘people’ and 
‘planet’ on pages 26, 30, 42, 43 and 44 in the 
report have been stated in accordance with 
the reporting criteria;
• the report has been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of sections 99a and 
99b of the danish financial statements act 
(fsa) and the requirements of the un global 
compact communication on progress policy;
• the report has been prepared in accordance 
with the principles and reporting criteria 
defined in the global reporting initiative (gri) 
sustainability reporting standards (core level). 
copenhagen, 25 february 2021
deloitte
statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab
business registration no. 33 96 35 56
kirsten aaskov mikkelsen
state authorised public accountant
mne no 21358
helena barton
lead reviewer
auditor’s observations regarding  
the gri standards’ reporting principles
materiality and sustainability context
the 2020 corporate responsibility report reflects, 
in all material respects, the response of the 
company to the sustainability context in which it 
operates. the updated materiality assessment is 
reflected in the content of the report. during an 
unusual and challenging year, company manage-
ment showed a unified sense of priorities and 
responsibilities and a continued commitment to 
the un sustainable development goals, which is 
also reflected in the report. 
stakeholder inclusiveness 
despite the global pandemic impacting some 
stakeholder engagement activities, the company 
continued to engage its key stakeholders through-
out 2020, and the report provides relevant examples 
of this.
comparability, completeness  
and timeliness
the report presents comparable and timely data 
on the company’s performance, despite some data 
collection being disrupted by the malware attack 
and the global covid-19 pandemic. the company 
managed to implement solutions that ensured 
continued data collection and controls for 2020. 
ongoing efforts to enhance the completeness of 
ghg emissions data will help the company meet its 
commitment to setting a science-based emission 
reduction target. 
accuracy and reliability
the company’s reporting principles, procedures 
and controls continue to promote the accuracy 
and reliability of reported data. the unexpected 
disruptions from the malware attack and the global 
covid-19 pandemic affected certain data quality 
controls during part of the year; however, the 
company shows a strong commitment to continued 
accountability and transparency in line with global 
good practice.
clarity and balance
based on our review of the report narrative and 
data combined with interviews with leadership from 
key functions, we found that the report provides 
a balanced presentation of the company’s 2020 
corporate responsibility performance. the commu-
nication on performance is clear and accessible to 
stakeholders seeking such information.
recommendations to management
we have no significant recommendations from 
our observations on the gri standards’ reporting 
principles. we have communicated a number of 
minor recommendations for improvement to the 
management of iss. 
40
independent auditor’s assurance report
reporting 
principles 
and 
compliance
data quality
this report, the tenth comprehensive corpo-
rate responsibility report prepared by iss, 
covers activities under our operational control 
in the calendar year 2020. the scope is all 
countries and assets that are under iss oper-
ational control and include all employees (iss 
employees, temporary workers and contract 
personnel). in 2020, we have not added new 
data parameters. for divestments, data was 
included up to the time of the divestment 
 taking effect and not thereafter. to further 
ensure improvements in the quality of data, 
we have also held webinars with countries to 
explain the data parameters. however, we are 
on a journey of continuous improvement in 
terms of quality of our data.
external principles  
and guidelines
we have designed our reporting to be in line 
with the new gri standards by the global 
reporting initiative (gri), the world’s most 
widely-used sustainability reporting framework. 
we have chosen to be in accordance with the 
‘core’ option. an overview of the gri standards 
disclosures included in this report can be found 
in the tables from page 45 onward.
we have also used the iso standard iso 26000 
guidance on social responsibility and the 
danish standard ds 49001 ‘social responsibility 
management system – requirements’ as a basis 
of our analysis and reporting.
in addition, we also work with the principles of 
sa8000 pertaining to labour and human rights. 
the sa8000 standard is a tool for implement-
ing international labour standards to protect 
employees.
this is the statutory report on corporate social 
responsibility cf.§99 a and §99 b of the danish 
financial statements act.
the reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our 
obligation to communicate on progress (cop) as 
required by the ungc. in addition, it contributes 
to us meeting the requirements of the uk 
 modern slavery act.
internal guidelines
as a basis for our reporting, iss developed a 
group hseq and cr reporting manual in 2010 
to provide reporting principles and rules to 
ensure a consistent basis for reporting. this 
manual is reviewed and updated yearly.
the manual specifies the data that shall be  available 
for monitoring performance and for reporting on 
corporate responsibility issues at group level.
number of employees are the total number of 
headcount full-time and part-time averaged 
over the 12-month reporting period. full-time 
employees are defined as employees who work 
a minimum of 30 hours a week for iss. number 
of employees are specified into frontline and 
white-collar employees.
hours of training are hours registered as spent 
by internal and external trainers and hours spent 
by participants while preparing and participat-
ing. this includes any training participation, paid 
or unpaid, as a result of employment within iss.
incidents of discriminations are the registered 
number of incidents of discrimination on 
grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political 
opinion, national extraction, or social origin as 
defined by ilo.
number of vehicles are all company vehicles: a 
vehicle that is owned or leased by the company 
and provided to an employee in order to carry 
out the requirements of their work i.e. to meet 
a particular business need, including pool 
vehicles. personal company cars are excluded.
number of vehicle accidents are any “contact” made 
between a vehicle and another vehicle, person or 
other object, regardless of whether there is proper-
ty damage or personal injury, but excluding:
• damage to vehicle while it is  
parked in a  legitimate parking area;
• environmental damage (e.g.  
hail storms,  damage from wind, etc.);
• vandalism, break-ins, or stone chips.
electricity consumption is calculated from 
utility invoices or meters. fuel consumption is 
calculated using fuel purchases e.g. invoices 
from the supplier. business travel emissions are 
calculated from data received from travel agen-
cies and where this is not possible, emissions 
are calculated on flight type (short haul, medium 
haul, long haul), passenger kilometres travelled 
and emission factors from recognised bodies.
the source for emission factors for electricity is 
the iea’s emissions factors, 2019 edition and for 
fuel is uk government ghg conversion factors 
for company reporting, version 1.2 by the uk 
department for business, energy and indus-
trial strategy. for electricity emission factors, 
we have used 2017 actual factors and 2018 
estimates where available.
changes and future outlook
as we have done in 2020, we will continue on 
improving the quality of our data in 2021.
reporting principles 
and compliance
41
reporting principles and compliance
our 
performance 
and targets
we report on our performance within three areas:
people: safe working conditions  
and human rights
planet: reducing our impact  
on the environment and climate
profit: compliance with sound  
business standards
this section presents our key 
performance indicators and 
results against objectives and 
targets for 2020. objectives 
and targets for 2021 are also 
communicated here.
1) 
defined as employees working an average of less than 
30 hours per week for iss.
2) 
a lti is defined as any work-related injury which prevents 
that person from doing any work after the incident i.e. 
any work related injury which results in a person being 
unfit for his/her work for at least one full working day or 
shift. the ltif is based on 1 million exposure hours. this 
includes contractors under iss operational control.
3) 
exposure hours include contractors working under iss 
operational control.
   for additional information, please see 
reporting principles and compliance on 
page 41.
people
2020
2019
2018
number of employees
378,946
471,056
485,908
full time %
75
77
76
part time %1)
25
23
24
total workforce
front line
357,021
444,912
460,010
% front line
94
94
95
% male
52
52
51
% female
48
48
49
white collar
21,926
26,144
25,868
% white collar
6
6
5
% male
57
52
56
% female
43
42
44
turnover
% all employees
33
35
42
% front line
38
37
44
male
42
39
47
female
34
35
42
% white collar
19
21
25
male
19
21
25
female
18
21
24
hours of training
3,749,859
6,510,989
7,525,680
front line
3,523,217
6,22,889
7,180,195
white collar
226,642
310,100
345,486
absentee rate %
2.5
2.1
2.1
incidents of discrimination
16
12
13
fatalities
3
3
1
lost time injury frequency (ltif) 2)
2.5
2.8
2.9
exposure hours (million hours) 3)
848.8
986.4
994.8
number of vehicles
24,309
20,571
20,635
number of vehicle accidents
2,724
3,390
3,531
financial highlights in 2020
69,823
revenue – million dkk
(6.5)%
organic growth
(4.6)%
operating margin
378,946
number of employees
our performance 
and targets
42
our performance and targets
for additional information, please see reporting principles and compliance on page 41.
1) 
2020, 2019 and 2018 financial data adjusted for discontinued operations.
2) 
income tax paid by employees comprises estimated employment taxes, social charges and contributions paid either by iss or directly by employees.
for additional information, please see reporting principles and compliance on page 41.
planet
profit
2020
2019
2018
electricity consumption (mwh.)
29,133
39,903
44,707
electricity emissions (scope 2) (tonnes co2 eq.)
7,390
12,009
14,804
electricity costs (million dkk)
29.5
42.9
40.7
fuel usage (million litres)
30.3
38.6
39.6
vehicle emissions (scope 1) (tonnes co2 eq.)
70,084
89,334
91,199
business travel emissions (scope 3) (tonnes co2 eq.)
5,814
21,263
22,285
water consumption (m3)
207,071
307,758
311,339
2020
2019
2018
revenue (millions dkk) 1)
69,823
77,698
73,592
operating profit before other items (millions dkk)
(3,226)
3,252
3,698
net finance costs (millions dkk)
(542)
(703)
(590)
taxes paid (millions dkk)
(666)
(513)
(663)
staff costs (millions dkk)
46,082
48,937
46,589
income tax paid by employees (millions dkk) 2)
12,160
12,903
13,191
43
our performance and targets
performance against objectives 
and targets for 2020
our most material issues are also the ones 
most directly supporting our strategy and are 
related to health, safety and environment as 
well as monitoring of labour conditions for our 
employees. we set targets and carry out audits 
to ensure the organisation’s focus remains on 
these subjects.
people
ambition
progress
next
on trend
fatalities
0
unfortunately we had three fatalities. 
see page 24
our target is 0
lost time injury 
frequency
reduce 60% compared to 2010  
to below 5
ltif decreased over 80% from the base-
line value of 13, to 2.5 in 2020
our target in 2021
is less than 2.5
lost work hours
reduce 55% compared to 2010
the number of lost work hours per 
1000 exposure hours reduced by 60%
our target in 2021
is a reduction of 70%
planet
ambition
progress
next
on trend
co2 emissions from 
electricity
5% reduction (mwh/revenue) 
from 2018-2021. a baseline was 
established: 16,498 tonnes co2 
eq. in 2017
there was a further 38%  
reduction in electricity  
consumption in 2019
5% reduction (mwh/revenue) 
from 2018-2021
co2 emissions from 
leased cars (g/km)
reduce by 10% within four-year
lease period based on 2019 data
in 2020, we reduced emissions from 
leased cars by 8% from the baseline 
established in 2020
reduce by 10% within four-year
lease period based on 2019 data
profit
ambition
progress
next
on trend
audits with hse and 
cr content
in at least 20% of countries where 
we operate
the scope of internal audits in more 
than 30% of countries  
included the iss code of conduct,  
the iss safety rules, child labour and 
working hours
in at least 20% of the countries 
where we operate
code of conduct 
e-learning
embed the e-learning module in 
more levels of the organisation
over 30,000 employees  
successfully passed new  
e-learning module
in 2021, we aim for at least
250,000 employees
44
our performance and targets
gri 
disclosures
the following tables provide  
an overview of the gri standard 
disclosures included in the 
report. the tables show the 
indicator, the topic and the 
page(s) the topic is covered  
in the report.
gri content index
gri 101 foundation
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
gri 102 general disclosures
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
102-1
name of the organisation
cover
102-2
activities, brands, products, and services
page 2 and here
102-3
location of headquarters
back cover
102-4
location of operations
page 4
102-5
ownership and legal form
annual report
102-6
markets served
page 4 and here
102-7
scale of the organisation
page 3, 5 and 6
102-8
information on employees and other workers
page 42
102-9
supply chain
pages 13 and 17; our supply chain includes over 
75,000 suppliers covering categories such as 
cleaning, fleet, subcontracting and indirect spend
102-10
significant changes to the organisation and its 
supply chain
annual report
102-11
precautionary principle or approach
page 28
102-12
external initiatives
we are a founding signatory to the 
un global compact
102-13
membership of associations
annual report
102-14
statement from senior decision- maker
pages 7-8
102-15
key impacts, risks, and opportunities
pages 9-13
102-16
values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behaviour
page 11 and here
102-17
mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
page 31-38
102-18
governance structure
pages 11 and 32 and annual report
102-19
delegating authority
page 11
102-20
executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics
page 11
102-21
consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics
page 17
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
45
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 102 general disclosures
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
102-32
highest governance body’s role in sustainability 
reporting
page 7; our board reviews and approves the 
report before it is published
102-33
communicating critical concerns
page 35, 36
102-34
nature and total number of critical concerns
page 38
102-35
remuneration policies
annual report and here
102-36
process for determining remuneration
annual report and here
102-40
list of stakeholder groups
page 17
102-41
collective bargaining agreements
over 49% of our employees are covered by 
bargaining agreements
102-42
identifying and selecting stakeholders
pages 9, 12 and 17; stakeholders have been 
based on our latest stakeholders assessment of 
materiality topics in 2020 that was part of our 
yearly review of our material assessment
102-43
approach to stakeholder engagement
page 17; we regularly meet with stakeholders 
(meetings, seminars, investor day); our 
stakeholder engagement throughout the year has 
served as input into our report preparation.
102-44
key topics and concerns raised
pages 9, 12 and 13
102-45
entities included in the consolizdated financial 
statements
annual report
102-46
defining report content and topic boundaries
page 9-13 and 41
102-47
list of material topics
page 12
102-48
restatements of information
pages 42 and 43 (footnotes)
102-49
changes in reporting
page 41; no mateiality topics have changed since 
2019.
102-50
reporting period
page 41
102-51
date of most recent report
2019
102-52
reporting cycle
page 41
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
46
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 102 general disclosures
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
102-53
contact point for questions regarding the report
back cover
102-54
claims of reporting in accordance with the gri 
standards
page 41
102-55
gri content index
page 45-51
102-56
external assurance
pages 39
gri 200 economic standards  
– material topics
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
103-1
explanation of the material topic and its boundary
pages 12 and 41
103-2
the management approach and its components
pages 7, 9, 31, 32 and annual report
103-3
evaluation of the management approach
pages 32, 27 and 38
201-1
direct economic value generated and distributed
page 43 and annual report
205-1
operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption
pages 13, 36 and 37
205-2
communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures
pages 35 and 37; the anti-corruption policy has 
been communicated to 100% of all governance 
body members at group, regional and country 
levels. we do not report on the breakdown by 
employee category, region or business partner
205-3
confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
taken
page 37 and 38; we had 0 incidents related to 
corruption where contracts with business partners 
were terminated or not renewed; we had 0 public 
legal cases regarding corruption; we do not report 
the number of employees dismissed or disciplined
206-1
legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-
trust, and monopoly practices
we have not been involved in any anti-trust issue 
or anti-competitive behaviour, and not monopoly 
practices
207-1
approach to tax
page 31 explains the tax approach; iss tax policy 
is disclosed already: here
207-2
tax governance, control, and risk management
iss tax policy includes some management 
structure information: here
207-4
country-by-country reporting
please see section 1.5 of the annual report
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
47
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 300 environmental 
 standards – material topics
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
103-1
explanation of the material topic and its boundary
pages 27 and 28
103-2
the management approach and its components
pages 27 and 28
103-3
evaluation of the management approach
page 30
energy
302-1
energy consumption within the organisation
pages 28, 30 and 43
energy
302-3
energy intensity
based on:  
revenue: 0.4166 mwh/mill. dkk 
exposure hours: 34.27 mwh/mill. exposure hours
energy
302-4
reduction of energy consumption
pages 30 and 43
water
303-3
water withdrawal 
pages 30 and 41; we only report on municipal 
water supplies as this is the main source of water
emissions
305-1
direct (scope 1) ghg emissions
page 43
emissions
305-2
energy indirect (scope 2) ghg emissions
page 43
emissions
305-3
other indirect (scope 3) ghg emissions
page 43
emissions
305-4
ghg emissions intensity (scope 1)
based on: 
revenue: 1.15 tonnes co2 eq./ mill. dkk 
exposure hours: 94.78 tonnes co2 eq./mill. 
exposure hours
emissions
305-5
reduction of ghg emissions
pages 30 and 43
environmental compliance
307-1
non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations
page 27
supplier environmental 
assessment
308-1
new suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria
page 17; 100% of new suppliers screened
supplier environmental 
assessment
308-2
negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken
pages 13 and 17
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
48
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 400 social standards  
– material topics
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
103-1
explanation of the material topic and its boundary
pages 13, 16-20, 23-24
103-2
the management approach and its components
pages 13, 16-20, 23-24
103-3
evaluation of the management approach
page 26
employment
401-1
new employee hires and employee turnover
page 42; we do not report age group
employment
401-3
parental leave
the iss global people standards:
• ensure paid maternity leave in accordance with 
local legislative requirements;
• provide women with the opportunity to access 
paid or unpaid maternity leave for a minimum 
of 12 weeks without risk of losing their 
employment
• in terms of numerical data, we cannot report at 
the global level
labour/ management relations
402-1
minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changes
we comply with european laws based on the 
european union’s acquired rights directive (ard) 
protecting the rights of employees in a business 
transfer situation, also known as tupe)
403-1
occupational health and safety management 
system
page 23
occupational health and safety
403-2
hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation
(old) types of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 
and number of workrelated fatalities
pages 23 and 24
403-3
occupational health services
pages 23-24
occupational health and safety
403-4
worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health and safety
(old) health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unions
health and safety are covered in the agreements 
with unions. in addition, at the european works 
council meetings, health and safety is on the 
agenda.
403-5
worker training on occupational health and safety
page 24
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
49
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 400 social standards  
– material topics
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
403-8
workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system
page 23
403-9
work-related injuries
page 42
403-10
work-related ill health
page 42
training and education
404-1
average hours of training per year per employee
pages 26 and 42
training and education
404-2
programmes for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programmes
pages 18 and 19
training and education
404-3
percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews
it is mandatory for all employees; however, we 
cannot report on all completed data as some 
are completed on hard copies and registered in 
files and we are still working on implementing a 
system to collect the data
diversity and equal opportunity
405-1
diversity of governance bodies and employees
pages 20 and 42 and annual report
non-discrimination
406-1
incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken
pages 37, 38 and 42
freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
407-1
operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at risk
pages 11 and 12
child labour
408-1
operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child labour
pages 13 and 17; we have identified suppliers of 
work wear as the highest risk of child labour
forced or compulsory labour
409-1
operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labour
pages 12, 13 and 17; we have identified suppliers 
of work wear as highest risk of forced or 
compulsory labour
human rights assessment
412-1
operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessments
page 37
human rights assessment
412-2
employee training on human rights policies or 
procedures
page 38; human rights training carried out as part 
of on boarding for all employees, and training 
such as iss code of conduct e-learning module 
and advantage
supplier social assessment
414-1
new suppliers that were screened using social 
criteria
page 17; 100% of new suppliers screened
supplier social assessment
414-2
negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken
page 15; we did not identify any negative social 
impacts in the supply chain.
public policy
415-1
political contributions
we do not contribute to political parties
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
50
gri and ungc compliance tables
gri content index
gri 400 social standards  
– material topics
gri standard number
disclosure
page number/comment
marketing and labelling
417-2
incidents of non-compliance concerning product 
and service information and labelling
we have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/ or voluntary codes concerning 
products and service information and labelling
marketing and labelling
417-3
incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications
we have not identified any incidents of non-
compliance with regulations and/or voluntary 
codes concerning marketing communications
customer privacy
418-1
substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data
we have not identified any substantiated 
complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
51
gri and ungc compliance tables
united 
nations 
global 
compact 
(ungc)
gri and ungc 
compliance tables
the following table provides an 
overview of the ungc principles 
and the page(s) the principle is 
covered in the report.
united nations global compact (ungc)
human rights
read more on page
principle 1
businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed  
human rights; and
7
principle 2
make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
13, 16
labour standards
read more on page
principle 3
businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of  
the right to collective bargaining;
17, 26
principle 4
the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
13, 37
principle 5
the effective abolition of child labour; and
13, 31, 37
principle 6
the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
37, 38
environment
read more on page
principle 7
businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
27
principle 8
undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
27
principle 9
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies.
27
anti-corruption
read more on page
principle 10
businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
32, 38
52
gri and ungc compliance tables
share your opinion
we welcome your feedback as it is an 
important part of our dialogue with our 
stakeholders.
you are welcome to contact
joseph nazareth, head of group hseq and cr 
at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at:
head of group hseq and cr 
iss a/s
buddingevej 197
2860 søborg, denmark
text
sam cage
design & production
kirk & holm
rosendahls
