section title  •  report on sustainability 2020  •  page 1 of 40
sustainability
report
2020
about this report
this report covers the jyske bank group’s work on sustainability during the period 1 january to 31 december 2020. 
the report covers areas within both sustainable business and responsible banking operations.  the report constitutes jyske bank’s 
reporting on corporate social responsibility and the gender composition of the management, cf. section 135a and b of the danish 
executive order on financial reports for credit institutions and investment firms, etc. and reporting in accordance with the united 
nations global compact and principles for responsible banking. 
the annual reporting for jyske bank consists of the annual report 2020, risk and capital management report 2020 and this report. 
this report is supplemented by our esg fact book, which is available at https://investor.jyskebank.com/investorrelations/ 
contents
 
foreword
4 
all progress counts
 
business and strategy
5 
business model
6 
role in society
8 
strategy 
9 
targets
10 
governance
11 
impact analysis 
 
sustainable business
12 
offers financing solutions that 
 
support sustainable transition
14 
simplifies sustainable investment
18 
provides knowledge of sustainability
 
responsible banking operations
21 
prevention of financial crime  
22 
it and data security
23 
responsible employer
25 
sustainable banking operations
26 
social engagement
27 
healthy corporate culture
29 
additional information on responsible banking 
 
operations
	
policies,	principles	and	key	figures
33 
policies and principles
34 
key figures
35 
accounting policies
36 
reporting on 
 
principles for responsible banking
jyske bank wants to make a difference – 
that also applies to sustainable devel-
opment. we aim to operate a business 
that acts responsibly and promotes 
sustainability – this is not new – it is part 
of our vision. we believe that the best 
long-term results will be created with 
the requisite balance between custom-
ers, employees, shareholders and the 
surrounding society.
sustainable business
the financial sector has taken on a new 
role and is focusing more on how finan-
cial services companies, including jyske 
bank, can promote sustainability through 
business activities such as lending and 
investing.
jyske bank’s work on sustainability is 
built on a commercial foundation and we 
have responded to the role that we as a 
financial company can and should play. 
for us, it makes sense to base our work 
on the view that “all progress counts”.  
this means focusing on supporting 
customer progress and facilitating our 
customers’ options for making sustain-
able choices and decisions. at present, 
focus is concentrated on the climate. 
from a commercial perspective, we want 
to offer funding solutions that support 
sustainable development and simplify 
sustainable investment, at the same 
time as increasing knowledge about 
sustainability.
more new products
in 2020, we introduced an equity fund 
focused on sustainable development for 
both retail and professional customers, 
and energy loans for homeowners. in 
early 2021, we started to issue payment 
cards made from 85% recyclable plastic, 
and we have just launched jyske kort 
rente grøn, our first green mortgage 
product for corporate clients. our ambi-
tion is to have sustainable solutions for 
all essential business areas by the end of 
2021.
 
we do what we recommend our 
customers to do
we lead the way in relation to our own 
sustainability. in summer 2020, jyske 
bank purchased a wind turbine at the 
port of hirtshals. initially to offset co2 
emissions from electricity consumption 
via our own production of renewable 
energy.
jyske bank is now taking the next step, 
with a new target for co2 emissions 
relating to heating and company 
cars to be covered by our own 
production of renewable 
energy. our own co2 
emissions are limited 
in compared to the 
co2 emissions we 
can impact through 
lending and invest-
ing activities, but 
taking an ambitious 
approach with 
regard to our own 
co2 emissions sends 
a signal that we do 
what we recommend our customers to 
do. going forward, we will continue to be 
ambitious and make new initiatives for 
our own emissions.
the approach to sustainability needs 
to be dynamic in order to follow the de-
velopment in the sustainability agenda. 
our targets and initiatives will need to 
be updated from time to time in order 
to reflect, for example, new knowledge 
or better methods and data. the lack 
of completeness within the area must 
not prevent us from taking action and 
gathering experience. we are becoming 
wiser as we go, and we are taking our 
stakeholders on this journey with us by 
being transparent about our work and 
approach.
all progress counts 
foreword by anders dam
anders dam
ceo and managing director
foreword  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 4 of 44
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 5 of 44
the jyske bank group supports the need 
for financial services for private individ-
uals, companies, institutions – and thus 
also society – on a profitable basis.  
we provide a full palette of financial 
products, primarily in denmark. our core 
services are products and services within 
banking, leasing and mortgages. other 
financial services are provided through 
long-term partnerships.  
our starting point is our desire, through 
our activities, to make a difference to our 
customers, wherever they are – geo-
graphically, in the digital world, in a life 
cycle, in an economic situation, etc. we 
want to be at the forefront of creating 
value for customers and shareholders 
by seeing opportunities and delivering 
solutions beyond what is expected. 
we are a relationship and advisory bank, 
where customers can easily choose from 
among the group’s channels, advisory 
concepts and service offerings, and have 
access to the group’s products within 
these in a way that provides value to both 
the customers and the bank. 
we believe that the best long-term 
results are created when we balance 
the interests of the main stakeholders: 
shareholders, customers, and employees. 
this balance is achieved when: 
•  
customers receive advice, solutions 
and service that are among the best 
on the market 
•  
employees have an attractive work-
place with opportunities for develop-
ment 
•  
shareholders receive an attractive, 
risk-adjusted long-term return. 
with a market share based on lending 
acitivities of approximately 11%  created 
through organic growth and acquisitions, 
jyske bank is currently the third-larg-
est bank, the fourth-largest mortgage 
institution and one of the largest leasing 
providers in denmark.
since 2014, the percentage of mortgage 
lending in the loan portfolio has grown 
significantly, strengthening credit quality 
and stabilising loan growth and margins. 
therefore, jyske bank’s business model 
in 2020 has a lower average risk and more 
stable returns. jyske bank is a systemi-
cally important financial institution with a 
strong capital and liquidity position. 
business model
profit after tax dkk 1.6 bn
return on equity 4.4%
capital ratio  22.9% 
cet1 17.9%
loans dkk 439.4 bn
deposits dkk 127.5 bn
asset under management 
dkk 175 bn
nationwide branch network 
with 94 branches 
market share based on lending 
activities 11%
key figures for 2020: 
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 6 of 44
contribution to society 
as a large financial services company in 
denmark, jyske bank has an obligation 
vis-à-vis society. we endeavour to run 
a company that in all respects conducts 
itself responsibly and promotes sustaina-
bility pursuant to our values. 
a well-functioning financial sector is of 
major importance to the social economy 
in relation to areas such as transferring 
capital to businesses and citizens, man-
aging savings, developing new, safe ways 
of paying, giving advice on and financing 
companies’ sustainable development, 
reporting suspicious transactions to the 
authorities and social engagement. 
in this section, we want to give an 
overview of a number of jyske bank’s 
contributions to society.  
systemically	important	financial	
institution that contributes to 
financial	stability	
jyske bank has a robust business model, 
where 79% of total lending is mort-
gage-type loans with full collateral. jyske 
bank has a strong capital and liquidity 
position, which is considered to be able 
to withstand even very tough stress 
scenarios.  
a substantial corporation tax  
contributor in denmark 
in 2020, the jyske bank group’s tax 
payments amounted to dkk 1,153 m, 
consisting of corporation tax, payroll tax, 
vat and property tax.  
supports growth and development 
jyske bank provides capital and other 
financial services to private individuals, 
authorities, municipalities and compa-
nies, thereby contributing to growth and 
development in society. at the end of 
2020, lending totalled dkk 439 bn and 
deposits dkk 127 bn. jyske bank had 
3,349 full-time employees at the end of 
2020. 
many danish shareholders 
at the end of 2020, jyske bank was 
owned by approximately 168,000 share-
holders and approximately 70% of the 
share capital is owned by danish share-
holders. in the last five years, jyske bank 
has distributed dkk 8.8 bn to its share-
holders in the form of dividends or share 
buybacks, corresponding to an average 
pay-out ratio of 65.  
role in society
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 7 of 44
active participation in sector col-
laboration
jyske bank is a member of finance den-
mark and participates in a number of its 
committees and working groups. in 2020, 
we helped to prepare the framework co2 
model for calculating financed emissions 
from lending and investments.
we have also taken the initiative to 
collaborate in the sector on the sustain-
able development goals from a danish 
perspective.
preventing	financial	crime	
in 2020, monitoring of customers and 
their transactions triggered 29,598 
alarms and resulted in 3,368 notifica-
tions to the danish money laundering 
secretariat. annually jyske bank allocates 
the equivalent of approx. 200 full-time 
employees to combatting and preventing 
financial crime.  
sustainable business 
jyske bank offers financing solutions that 
support sustainable development, pro-
vide knowledge about sustainability and 
simplifies sustainable investment.
at the end of 2020, loans for green, 
sustainable purposes amounted to dkk 
82.8 bn and the assets in the jyske invest 
funds focusing on sustainability and cor-
porate social responsibility to dkk 8.6 bn.
easy and secure  
payment options 
jyske bank focuses on making digital 
payments easy and secure, and provides 
a number of payment solutions: online 
banking, mobile banking, apple pay, mo-
bilepay and electronic payment cards.
social engagement through  
partnerships 
we are socially engaged and prefer to 
work in partnerships. jyske bank has had 
a partnership with the fødevarebanken 
[danish food bank] since 2012 and with 
folkebevægelsen mod ensomhed [the 
people’s movement against loneliness] 
since 2015.
employees from jyske bank are teachers 
during pengeugen [money week] and 
provide voluntary debt advice.
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 8 of 44
strategy
in 2019, jyske bank signed the un prin-
ciples for responsible banking (prb) and 
these principles are used as an overarch-
ing approach to the work on integrating 
sustainability. 
in 2020, jyske bank has been particu-
larly focused on further developing its 
approach of sustainable business. this 
work has resulted in the overall strategy 
that “all progress counts”. taking this 
approach, we work both on the responsi-
ble activities, which are already integrat-
ed into the bank’s operations, and with 
a strengthened focus on how we can 
promote sustainability through business 
activities such as lending and investing. in 
other words, we focus on supporting cus-
tomer progress and facilitating custom-
ers’ sustainable choices and decisions. at 
present, we have a particular focus on the 
climate, which is a significant impact area 
for jyske bank.
our sustainability strategy is illustrated in 
the circle. the circle symbolises the en-
tirety of our work and contains the areas 
we are working on. the bottom half of the 
circle, responsible banking operations, 
comprises the areas we are working with 
internally and forms the foundations of 
our business model. the top half of the 
circle, sustainable business, describes 
our approach to customers and our 
surroundings.
sustainable business
we are focused on supporting our cus-
tomers’ progress in sustainability tran-
sition. this is done through advice and 
through the group’s offering of products 
and services.  at jyske bank, we continu-
ously offer sustainable products, services 
and advisory solutions to customers in all 
of the group’s important business areas.
jyske bank’s three business objectives 
for sustainable business are:
•  
offers financing solutions that sup-
port sustainable transition
•  
simplifies sustainable investment
•  
provides knowledge about sustaina-
bility.
responsible banking operations
when it comes to operating the bank, 
i.e. our own activities, we talk about 
“responsible banking operations”. this 
involves:
•  
running a profitable business that 
ensures that the group can continue 
to play a significant role in society 
•  
our employees acting with honesty 
and integrity
•  
earning trust and credibility from 
customers and other stakeholders 
through behaviour and transparency
•  
ensuring compliance with all appli-
cable legislation across business 
activities 
•  
ensuring high levels of it and data 
security
 •  not accepting misuse of the group 
for the purpose of financial crime
•  
 creating a workplace which ensures 
job satisfaction and equal rights for 
our employees
•  
working to identify and reduce the 
group’s negative impact the environ-
ment
•  
accepting corporate social respon-
sibility and contributing to solving 
relevant social issues through social 
engagement.
all of these activities are already inte-
grated into the bank’s operations and are 
continually in focus.
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 9 of 44
targets
at present, jyske bank has the following 
targets for promoting sustainable devel-
opment. our current focus on climate is 
also reflected in the targets, which cover 
both sustainable business and responsi-
ble banking operations. we will continu-
ously update and set new targets.
40% of new lending for financing vehicles will be for low-emission vehicles in 2025. 
40%
progress for 2020 is not updated due to the transition to a new international standard 
for calculating co2 emissions for vehicles.
we will finance production of 4 twh of renewable energy in 2025.
4 twh
2.5 twh
we will provide financing for low-emission commercial propeties of dkk 40 bn in 2025.
dkk 40 bn
dkk 31 bn
by the end of 2022 we will offset our co2 emissions from electricity, heating and 
driving the bank’s vehicles with our own production of renewable energy.
6,820 tonnes co2e
6,440 tonnes
75%
 progress for 2020 is not reported as the target is new.
we support the danish investment association goal of reducing the carbon footprint 
of private investors’ investments in equity funds by 75% in 2030 compared to msci’s 
global share index in 2020.
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 10 of 44
governance
as part of the integration of sustainability 
in jyske bank’s business model, a perma-
nent anchoring of the area was estab-
lished in 2020. the previous sustainability 
programme has therefore been replaced 
by a sustainability committee. 
at jyske bank, the supervisory board has 
overall responsibility for strategy and poli-
cies. the board will address and consider 
strategic and tactical issues related to 
sustainability.
the executive board has day-to-day 
responsibility for sustainability and 
corporate social responsibility across the 
group and ensures the implementation 
of and compliance with the policy in all 
parts of jyske bank and is responsible for 
the overall prioritisation of initiatives.
in practice, the follow-up of this respon-
sibility is delegated to the sustainability 
committee, which consists of two mem-
bers of the executive board, the cfo and 
the director for ir and sustainability. the 
committee meets on a quarterly basis at 
least. 
sustainability is an integral part of the 
operations and business development in 
all parts of the group, and all units in the 
organisation contribute to implementing 
the strategy and compliance with jyske 
bank’s sustainability objectives. the indi-
vidual units are responsible for carrying 
out development tasks, which follow 
usual governance for prioritisation and 
execution of development tasks. 
the ir and sustainability department, 
which reports to the group’s cfo, is 
responsible for driving and coordinating 
the overall agenda, ensuring correlation 
between strategic initiatives for sustain-
ability at jyske bank and reporting on the 
progress of these. 
executive board
supervisory board
sustainability committee
business units and group functions
recycled plastic 
payment cards 
– simply common sense
an example of integrating sustain-
ability into operations and business 
development is the introduction of 
payment cards in recycled plastics. 
as part of a generally more sus-
tainable product development, we 
have taken the first steps to issue 
cards made from recycled plastics 
through a collaboration with idem-
ia, the supplier of denmark’s first 
recycled plastic card. these small 
payment cards may not be much 
to look at in your wallet, but that is 
no good reason for not making the 
cards environmentally friendly. 
“it’s about changing habits so that 
we don’t just carry on using the 
solutions we’ve become accus-
tomed to. that’s why we continu-
ally look at all our value chains and 
what our suppliers can offer us, 
which can make our services more 
sustainable. ”
vicki stoltz rosenberg 
product owner for  
 payment products 
with lending and investing activi-
ties across a broad cross-section of 
industries, jyske bank, directly or via its 
customers, will impact all of the un’s 17 
sustainable development goals. the 
purpose of the impact analysis is – based 
on the bank’s existing business model 
and composition – to identify and thus 
prioritise the most significant challeng-
ing areas of activity (“negative impacts”) 
and correspondingly the most significant 
sustainability-supporting areas of activ-
ity (“positive impacts”) in relation to the 
un’s 17 sustainable development goals.
the	first	impact	analysis
as part of the group’s implementation 
of prb, jyske bank conducted its first 
impact analysis in 2020. the analysis is 
based methodically on the un’s portfolio 
impact analysis tool for banks and 
on the four elements, scope, scale of 
exposure, context & relevance and scale 
& intensity/salience, included in the un 
guidelines for implementing prb.
the analysis shows that climate is a sig-
nificant impact area for jyske bank and 
therefore estimates the co2e emissions 
from the bank’s lending and investing 
activities.
the complete analysis can be read on 
our website www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/sustainability.
 
how the estimates are used
quantifying the impact makes it possible 
to target and prioritise actions. going 
forward, the analysis and its estimates 
will therefore be part of the 
decision-making process for 
establishing objectives and actions at 
both group and business unit level. in 
addition the analysis’ estimates will be 
used to address the importance of work-
ing with customer sustainability. 
work to educate and raise awareness 
about sustainability and impact internally 
will continue in 2021.
based on the analysis, waste will be the 
next relevant impact area for jyske bank 
to analyse in more detail.
impact analysis
“the analysis is the first step in 
a process of quantifying impact 
across lending and investing 
activities. it reflects jyske bank’s 
current position. estimates 
will naturally change as meth-
ods and data improve, and by 
estimating emissions figures 
we gain new knowledge that will 
enable us to target our actions.”
trine lysholt nørgaard
director  
ir and sustainability
business and strategy  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 11 of 44
loans 59%
investments 41%
personal clients 18%
coporate clients 41%
aum 34%
investment portfolio 7%
loans 70%
investments 30%
estimates of the impact analysis
approx. dkk 600 bn
2.7 mio. tonnes co2e
sustainable business  •   sustainability report 2020  •  page 12 of 44
jyske bank offers loan products, advice 
and services that support financing of the 
changes that our customers want to make 
in order to move their activities in a more 
sustainable direction. 
climate is a significant impact area for 
jyske bank. our impact analysis shows 
that lending, including loans to corporate 
clients, is responsible for the majority of 
the estimated co2e emissions. based on 
the analysis, we have chosen to focus our 
actions on financing solutions that sup-
port sustainable changes within climate 
and reduction of co2e emissions.
in jyske bank’s green finance frame-
work, we have designated five green and 
sustainable lending areas that could make 
significant contributions to reducing co2e 
emissions, and we will continually set 
targets for these. the five lending areas 
are: renewable energy, green buildings, 
clean transport, sustainable use of natural 
resources and recycling and sustainable 
production. we have currently set targets 
for three of the five areas.
from an organisational perspective, we 
have specialist departments in the busi-
ness areas of agriculture, green energy, 
transport and utilities.
renewable energy
in the transition towards a society inde-
pendent of fossil fuels, it is important 
to develop the production of renewable 
energy. at jyske bank, we would like to 
help finance this development. we already 
provide significant lending for renewable 
energy and are co-financing the produc-
tion of renewable energy totalling 2.5 twh 
at the end of 2020, which corresponds 
to 8.5% of denmark’s total electricity 
production. jyske bank has a target of 
financing 4 twh of renewable energy by 
no later than 2025. 
it is possible to finance land-based renew-
able energy with mortgages.
offers	financing	solutions	that	
support sustainable transition
eurowind energy a/s sup-
plies green, sustainable 
energy to greenlab
greenlab skive is a green in-
dustrial park, a national research 
centre and a technology catalyst. 
greenlab will provide the frame-
work for the world’s first full-scale 
ptx plant, offering a unique, 
intelligent energy platform where 
green, sustainable energy 
is produced, stored and shared 
between the businesses in the 
industrial park. 
jens rasmussen, managing direc-
tor, eurowind energy a/s states: 
“we are proud to provide sustain-
able energy production for this 
ambitious and innovative project, 
which, by focusing at system level 
rather than individual levels, can 
help to find new routes to effective 
green transition.” 
jyske bank finances eurowind en-
ergy a/s’s construction of a hybrid 
park comprising wind, sun and 
battery solutions. construction is 
underway and it is expected to be 
put into service in the autumn of 
2022.
lending volume, dkk million
2020
2019
renewable energy
3,597
2,915
green buildings
76,413
64,799
clean transport
930
557
sustainable use of natural resources 
1,812
2,092
recycling and sustainable production
610
289
sustainable business  •   sustainability report 2020  •  page 13 of 44
jyske bank – more than just 
green loans 
through jyske realkredit, jyske 
bank has loans to the social housing 
sector of approx. dkk 49 bn. 
the social housing sector, home to 
around one million people in den-
mark and provides good housing 
in attractive areas for everyone, 
regardless of income.
jyske realkredit’s market share 
in this housing sector represents 
approximately 26%, compared 
with jyske realkredit’s total market 
share of approximately 11% of the 
danish mortgage market. 
green buildings
financing
a reduction in energy consumption in 
danish properties is an important part 
of the danish government’s plan for a 
70% reduction of co2 emissions by 2030 
compared with 1990 levels.  
jyske bank already provides financing of 
dkk 76 bn for properties with low energy 
consumption, of which commercial prop-
erties account for dkk 31 bn. our target 
is to finance dkk 40 bn in commercial 
properties with low energy consumption 
by no later than 2025. 
from february 2021, jyske bank will offer 
green mortgages for commercial proper-
ties that meet the criteria in jyske bank’s 
green finance framework. these green 
mortgages are financed by issueing 
green mortgage bonds.
energy renovation
the danish co2 reduction target must 
also be achieved by improving the climate 
shell, and thereby reducing emissions for 
the existing stock of property. to support 
energy improvements, we have launched 
energy improvement loans for home-
owners to fund energy renovation at a 
lower interest rate than equivalent loans 
and a co2 calculator in the “best home” 
app.
clean transport
in a global world, we need to transport 
both people and goods within as well as 
across national borders. 
in order to minimise co2 emissions, it 
is important that the various modes of 
transport become less dependent on 
fossil fuels. 
the danish government decided in 
december 2020 that there should be 
775,000 electric and hybrid cars on 
danish roads by 2030. at jyske bank, we 
support both this target and the general 
changeover to transport without the 
use of fossil fuels, and have set a target 
of 40% of new lending for means of 
transport (20% for transport of goods) to 
be for low-emission means of transport 
by 2025.
through jyske finans, we offer financing 
for virtually all types of transportation, 
including both private and commercial 
transport, and we have a team of special-
ists in the transport industry who provide 
customers with advice and sparring 
before investing. 
the future is electric
the passenger transport industry, together with bus service providers, has al-
ready started rolling out electric buses in danish cities. jyske finans is cooper-
ating with, among others, one of the largest private bus companies in denmark, 
umove, on the deployment of electric buses. umove has just won another 
tender and is to deliver 62 electric buses to the municipality of copenhagen. 
umove already has extensive experience of electric buses operating in roskilde 
municipality among others, with the involvement of jyske finans. 
“in recent years, there has been a quantum leap in the technological develop-
ment of electric vehicles. combined with the public sector’s focus on sustain-
able development, we can now see that many of our customers are making 
similar investments. we are pleased that we can help to support this develop-
ment,” comments allan mortensen, director, jyske finans.
jyske finans provides financing for a significant proportion of the electric buses 
that are already driving on danish roads.
sustainable business  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 14 of 44
at jyske bank, we want to make it possi-
ble for more of our customers’ invest-
ments to become sustainable. which is 
why we want to make more sustainable 
investment easy and accessible for 
customers. we strive to offer products, 
advice and services that make sustain-
able investments easy, regardless of 
whether the customer chooses one of 
jyske bank’s investment solutions or 
makes their own investments. 
we see it as our job to provide advice and 
optimise customer returns in the best 
way possible. this means that environ-
mental, social and corporate governance 
(esg) is naturally included in both the 
investment opportunity selection and 
investment processes that jyske bank’s 
portfolio managers use for investment 
solutions. 
companies’ strategy and objectives for 
sustainable development are therefore 
evaluated on an ongoing basis. we see 
sustainability as a structural theme that 
fundamentally changes the conditions 
for many companies and industries, such 
as on the demand side due to changed 
preferences and requirements of con-
sumers, on the financing side through 
the companies’ access to capital, and 
through new regulations. 
good investment advice and good 
investment performance assume we can 
identify the opportunities and risks that 
sustainable development will create and 
how it affects each individual company. 
the source data is continually improving 
as more companies publish results and 
objectives in relation to sustainability, 
and this allows us to make a more nu-
anced assessment of the transition level 
in the companies. 
in 2020, we strengthened the overall 
setup of our asset management by 
bringing risk and sustainability together 
within one department. esg conditions 
are included in the ongoing risk as-
sessment and idea generation for the 
various investment teams. we use input 
from msci and sustainalytics, but also 
complement this with, for example, more 
specific input from transition pathway, 
which provides a detailed assessment of 
whether companies are on the right 
track towards compliance with the 
paris agreement.
simplifies	sustainable	investment	
active ownership and engagement
we believe in the value of active owner-
ship and progress through dialogue with 
companies. we work with other investors 
to promote a strong dialogue.
inclusion and exclusion
we work with exclusion in the form of re-
fusing to invest in controversial companies 
due to breaches of esg conditions (breach 
of norms) or based on their activities. 
we also work with inclusion in selected 
funds. that is to say, we select companies 
that we consider to be best positioned in 
terms of sustainable development.
integration 
we integrate of esg conditions into invest-
ment decisions, as we believe that these 
conditions are significant to the future 
earnings potential and risks of companies, 
and hence also the return potential. 
communication and reporting
we communicate continuously about our 
investments and the results of our efforts. 
fx sustainability fact sheets that provide 
an accessible insight into esg conditions, 
carbon footprint, contributions to the un’s 
sustainable development goals as well as 
the results of our dialogue with companies.
our approach to sustainable investment
sustainable business  •  jyske bank  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 15 of 44
transparency around  
sustainability 
we focus on transparency and aim to 
show the nuances of sustainability. the 
approach to sustainability is holistic 
and in line with the un’s 17 sustainable 
development goals. this future-proofs 
our foundation, as even though climate 
change is in focus, the recent covid-19 
outbreak and the metoo and blacklives-
matter movements show that social 
challenges are also becoming more 
prevalent. 
we are working continuously on integrat-
ing sustainability data into our analytics 
processes, so analysts have more tools 
to better analyse the conditions within 
a company. integrating significant esg 
risks will become the new standard for 
all our equity recommendations. climate 
change, and most recently covid-19, 
have clearly shown a range of risks that lie 
outside traditional financial analysis. 
during 2020, we built up a robust data 
foundation that means that by 2021 we 
will be able to display sustainability-re-
lated data at company level. this also 
makes sustainable investment easy for 
those customers who do not use jyske 
bank’s investment solutions, but who are 
advisory services customers or make 
their own investments.
in 2020, jyske invest launched a new fact 
sheet focusing on sustainability for jyske 
invest’s equity funds. corresponding in-
formation on corporate bonds and mixed 
asset funds is expected to be available in 
2021. 
the fact sheets from jyske invest pro-
vide insight into the key figures for esg 
in the funds and help our clients make a 
conscious choice when investing. with 
the introduction of the eu taxonomy, we 
expect greater clarity as to what is con-
sidered sustainable. instead of waiting for 
a definition, we present our customers 
with four elements to give an illustration 
of how we are working with sustainability: 
• 
esg risk assessment 
summarises the main esg risks and how 
these are managed. an industry-specific 
assessment of the companies, including 
ongoing updates on controversial behav-
iour. fx responsibility for environmental 
disasters, bribery cases, etc. 
• 
co2 emissions 
comparison with a benchmark, which is 
supplemented with everyday examples 
that translate co2 emissions into  some-
thing more tangible. 
• 
active ownership 
influencing the companies to change 
their behaviour, through cooperation with 
other investors. 
• 
the un sustainable development 
goals 
shows how the companies contribute to 
a much broader sustainable agenda than 
just climate.
sustainable products
in 2020, jyske invest bæredygtige aktier 
kl was introduced, which gives custom-
ers the opportunity to invest in a broad 
global equity fund  with a focus on sus-
tainability. through jyske invest, jyske 
bank provides investors with three funds 
that have particular focus on corporate 
social responsibility and sustainability. 
“all companies have a positive 
and negative impact on the world 
– and there is always room for 
improvement. 
we want to demonstrate that 
sustainability is shaded in nu-
ances, otherwise it would not be 
credible.”
camilla fangel 
senior sustainability specialist
new sustainable equity product
jyske invest bæredygtige aktier kl gives customers the opportunity to in-
vest in a broad global equity fund with a focus on sustainability. the portfolio 
in jyske invest bæredygtige aktier kl is comprised of: 
• 
shares in the world’s developed countries
• 
increased exposure to companies with good sustainability characteris-
tics, including companies with a high esg rating and low co2 emissions
• 
lower exposure to companies assessed as having poor sustainability 
characteristics 
• 
exclusion of companies with the lowest esg rating (ccc), companies 
which violate internationally recognised norms and conventions, and 
companies involved in the production of thermal coal and tar sand. 
sustainable business  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 16 of 44
jyske invest globale aktier sri kl invests 
in a globally composed portfolio of 
shares, jyske invest virksomhedsobli-
gationer sri kl invests in a portfolio of 
high-yield bonds issued by companies, 
while jyske invest højt ratede virk-
somhedsobligationer sri kl invests in a 
portfolio of high-rated bonds issued by 
companies. the common position of all 
three investment funds is that they do 
not invest in any company for which it can 
be documented that business is being 
carried out in a manner that violates 
widely recognised international conven-
tions and norms relating to the environ-
ment, human rights and business ethics. 
in addition, investments will not be made 
in any companies that produce or distrib-
ute weapons, alcohol, tobacco, gambling 
services or adult entertainment, or 
companies that perform the extraction, 
development and refining of fossil fuels. 
in addition to these funds, we have cho-
sen to offer funds from selected external 
asset managers, such as an impact equity 
fund specifically focused on companies 
that deliver the climate solutions and 
technology of tomorrow within one or 
more of five categories: clean energy, 
sustainable transport, environmental 
resources, low-carbon leaders or energy 
efficiency. 
building up sustainable 
investment
at the end of 2020, dkk 8.6 bn has been 
invested in the jyske invest funds with 
a particular focus on corporate social 
responsibility and sustainability.
in general, a large proportion of as-
sets under management is invested in 
companies that perform better than the 
benchmark for esg rating, co2 emis-
sions and revenue in relation to the un 
sustainable development goals.  
target
as a member of the danish in-
vestment association, we sup-
port the objective of reducing 
the carbon footprint for danish 
private investments, so that 
by 2030 the carbon footprint 
from this is 75% lower than the 
carbon footprint for the msci 
global share index in 2020. 
funds for equity and corporate bonds
share of assets with esg score better than benchmark
94%
share of assets with carbon footprint lower than benchmark
92%
share of assets with higher proportion of revenues related to the un sustainable development goals than benchmark
56%
sustainable business  •  jyske bank  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 17 of 44
since 2010, jyske bank’s work with 
responsible investments has been 
based on the un principles for re-
sponsible investment (pri). the policy 
for responsible investments at jyske 
bank sets out the framework for this 
work.
jyske bank receives ongoing screen-
ing reports for companies with seri-
ous breaches of international norms 
or conventions. 
jyske bank has excluded investments 
in a number of companies that do not 
comply with the policy for responsible 
investments at jyske bank, and where 
there is no prospect of dialogue 
resulting in a change in behaviour. at 
the end of 2020, the list of excluded 
companies primarily includes com-
panies that may be linked to con-
troversial weapons: anti-personnel 
mines, cluster weapons and nuclear 
weapons (where the un treaty on the 
non-proliferation of nuclear weap-
ons is not observed). 
jyske bank advises jyske invest fund 
management a/s (jifm) on active 
ownership and the associations 
administered by jifm attempt, in 
certain situations, to influence the 
companies by exercising voting rights. 
this will typically take place in dialogue 
with other investors via the sustaina-
lytics engagement forum in order to 
achieve the greatest possible effect 
of the vote. 
active ownership outcomes 
as an active investor, jyske bank is in 
continuous dialogue with companies 
in relation to activities that conflict 
with international norms or conven-
tions. 
during 2020, associations admin-
istered by jifm, along with other 
investors, participated in the sustain-
alytics norm-based engagement pro-
gramme of 249 engagement cases 
concerning violation of international 
conventions and norms. of these, 54 
of the engagement cases concern 
companies in the associations’ 
portfolios. 34 of these cases concern 
human rights and labour rights, 5 
concern environmental issues and 15 
concern business ethics. during 2020, 
seven cases in the associations’ port-
folios were resolved and thus closed. 
in the remaining ongoing cases, very 
positive engagement results can be 
noted in the form of progression in 
the specific cases and a willingness to 
enter into a dialogue by the compa-
nies responsible in 15 of the cases. 
somewhat positive results have been 
achieved in 31 of the engagement 
cases, while there have been poor or 
no results in 8 cases. 
active ownership
“make wiser” is part of jyske bank’s 
overall communications strategy. thus, it 
is only natural that jyske bank also seeks 
to provide knowledge about sustainability 
in the market areas we serve. this means 
that jyske bank’s sustainability commu-
nications must engage customers and 
other stakeholders in the agenda and 
allow them to make sustainable choices; 
independently of the products offered by 
jyske bank, but with the clear aim of get-
ting more people to choose sustainable 
solutions for both loans and investments. 
as always, our communication will be 
characterised by the fact that we serve 
the target group and we present un-
expected, high-quality formats – often 
in strategic partnerships with relevant 
partners.
action requires knowledge 
and transparency
our aim is to provide customers with a 
nuanced approach to sustainability, en-
abling more people to make sustainable 
choices and to better their understanding 
of how big a difference changes in finan-
cial transactions can make to sustainable 
development.
transparency is a necessary foundation 
since the definition of sustainability 
is continually changing and the bar is 
constantly being raised. we want to bring 
the necessary nuances of sustainability 
to the fore and shift perceptions, as sus-
tainability is about more than just climate 
changes and being “green”.  
both internally and externally, we make 
use of our own experts, who serve as 
knowledge beacons and disseminators of 
the latest knowledge about trends, legis-
lation, standards and demand, combined 
with the business methods used by the 
bank.
provides knowledge about 
sustainability
sustainable business  •   sustainability report 2020  •  page 18 of 44
sustainable business  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 19 of 44
what have we achieved in 
2020?
in 2020, we have focused on three areas 
in particular that either is of interest of 
our customers or that we believe should 
interest them: 
energy renovation of homes
government subsidies, favourable con-
version options and the low interest rate 
environment have made it attractive for 
homeowners to make improvements to 
their home to the benefit of the climate and 
the value of their homes. with webinars, 
newsletters and blogs, we have shared our 
knowledge of the value of such an invest-
ment.
what is behind your investments?
we have developed new methods and 
workflows to ensure that in the future we 
can provide as much information as possi-
ble about the companies that a customer 
chooses to invest in. sustainability-related 
data is combined with financial data to ena-
ble a customer to assess a company based 
on the parameters that are important to 
them.
best practice among companies
in our series of mini company portraits, got 
a minute?, we tell the stories of customers 
who have successfully integrated sustaina-
bility into their business model. 
what does 2021 have to offer?
in 2021, we will focus on what the individ-
ual can do to be more sustainable in their 
financial transactions. one area in which a 
significant impact can be made is via invest-
ments, including pension savings. sustain-
able investment will therefore be a major 
topic, including investment in general, so 
that even more people can start investing – 
and also do so sustainably.
through a number of strategic partner-
ships, we will offer our customers 
knowledge of multiple aspects of, in 
particular, the social side of sustainability 
such as loneliness, well-being and work–life 
balance.
nuances of  
sustainability
the term sustainability is popular and 
frequently used. when we provide knowl-
edge, in addition to navigating between 
the various nuances of sustainability, we 
must also consider the fact that we, as 
part of the financial sector, are also 
part of the sector’s reputation. 
a fact that – perhaps – makes 
many of the recipients of our 
messages more sceptical 
than they otherwise would 
be. it is a risk that we are 
aware of. we want to 
position ourselves as an 
important voice in the 
current debate with 
the aim of increasing 
general awareness of 
sustainability and, in 
particular, the finan-
cial sector’s contribu-
tion in this regard. we 
are committed to this.
the communicating bank
over many years, jyske bank has built up 
internal expertise in disseminating information 
through various different media, but primarily tv 
and podcasts. 
in 2020, we launched jyske bank live, a range 
of webinars that give our customers and other 
interested parties useful experiences – and direct 
access to the bank’s experts and business partners.
with jyske bank live, we combine professionally 
produced tv with the webinar platform’s capacity 
for interaction with viewers.  a good example is 
the webinar on “energy renovation – an invest-
ment with a green return”, in which homeowners’ 
options for creating green value in their own 
homes were explained by jyske bank’s housing 
economist in partnership with an external 
experts on energy labelling.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 20 of 44
responsible banking operations
jyske bank wants to operate a 
business that acts responsibly and 
promotes sustainability. we believe 
the path to sustainability is through 
responsible banking.
when we work with sustainability 
in our internal operations, we call it 
responsible banking operations. this 
concerns the climate, of course, but 
the other sustainable development 
goals are also important. responsi-
ble banking operations  is about how 
we want to interact with customers, 
our employees and society.
when we work with responsible 
banking operations, we focus par-
ticularly on activities within:
• 
prevention of financial crime
• 
it and data security 
• 
being a responsible employer 
• 
sustainable banking 
• 
social engagement
• 
ensuring a healthy corporate 
culture 
these are all activities that we are 
familiar with and that are already 
integrated into the operations of the 
bank. 
responsible banking operations is 
also very much about complying with 
applicable legislation and thereby 
meeting the expectations that our 
stakeholders must rightfully have 
of us. it is also through responsible 
banking that we comply with the un 
global compact.
the following pages describe our 
areas of focus within responsible 
banking operations. both in terms of 
how we comply with the statutory 
requirements and the activities we 
have chosen because we believe that 
they strengthen our responsibility. 
finally, the section provides addi-
tional information in tabular form for 
each activity.
“acting responsibly and 
meeting the standards to 
which we hold others is strongly 
anchored in jyske bank’s 
foundation and goes naturally 
hand-in-hand with the 10 
principles of global compact, 
which we have supported since 
2016 and continue to support”
anders dam
ceo and managing director
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 21 of 44
efforts to prevent money laundering and 
the financing of terrorism remain a top 
priority of the jyske bank group. in order
to reduce the risk of the bank being 
misused for unlawful purposes, we have 
introduced measures to prevent financial 
crime that go beyond the requirements 
of legislation. 
our work to prevent and combat finan-
cial crime is therefore not only about 
checking customer transactions etc. but 
is also about preventive initiatives. in this 
way, we actively contribute to combatting 
money laundering and other financial 
crime. 
in 2020, we introduced a number of 
new specific initiatives to help prevent 
financial crime, and these initiatives will 
continue in 2021.
stopping covid-19 subsidies fraud
as the covid-19 pandemic arrived in 
denmark and the government gave 
subsidies to the business community, we 
at jyske bank have focused on cus-
tomers who – based on our knowledge 
of the customer – are not entitled to 
receive subsidies. this has resulted in a 
number of reports to the danish money 
laundering secretariat due to suspected 
covid-19 subsidies fraud. 
less cash in circulation
in our experience, criminals generally 
prefer cash for money laundering. to 
reduce the amount of cash in circulation, 
we have lowered withdrawal limits for the 
bank’s atms even further. 
misuse via online banking etc. 
the danish banking sector is experienc-
ing an increasing amount of fraud involv-
ing identity theft and online banking fraud 
etc. we have therefore been involved in 
making a number of specific adjustments 
and we were also an active part of the 
nationwide initiative in october 2020 
that focused on “cybercrime” through 
a number of initiatives, including on our 
website. the purpose has been to draw 
customers’ attention to what they can do 
to protect themselves against fraud.
we are also working with industry associ-
ations such as nordic financial cert and 
finance denmark, and have recently en-
tered into an agreement with “my digital 
self-defence” (a free app) to increase the 
digital security of all danish citizens. 
auditing obligation
since 2019, we at jyske bank have 
required all business customers to use 
an approved auditor. if the customer is 
unable to tell us which auditor they are 
working with, it will not as a general rule 
be possible for the customer relationship 
to continue.
for example, the auditing obligation has 
resulted in 1,524 customers submitting 
documentation about their auditor, while 
696 business customers have left the 
bank due to this requirement.
sectoral cooperation
we are constantly working to improve 
and refine our setup in order to prevent 
money laundering. the legislation is 
changing all the time, and interpretation 
of rules and ongoing practice in this area 
is therefore crucial. at jyske bank, we 
therefore consider it very important to 
cooperate in the sector and participate 
in a number of sector initiatives. for 
example, we have participated in finance 
denmark’s task force for the prevention 
of money laundering, and we have also 
entered into direct cooperation with the 
authorities.  
prevention	of	financial	crime	
inspection by the danish financial supervisory authority
in august 2020, the bank received the danish financial supervisory authority’s report on its money-laundering inspection at the 
bank regarding transaction monitoring. the report contained two orders. the first order has been actioned. the second order was 
actioned in part at the end of 2020 and is expected to be actioned in full by the end of april 2021. 
a high level of it security is essential in 
a time when personal data and financial 
transactions are sent via digital channels. 
our level of security is set in line with our 
ambition of having a level of security that 
is always able to handle the current cyber 
threat and safeguard us against the risks 
associated with it and has elements that 
are “best in class”. 
we very much focus on how we act as 
data controller and use a high level of 
security when processing customer data.
cyber threat
during the time we have been working 
with digitalization and offering our busi-
ness services through digital channels, 
there has been a need for a high level 
of it security. in recent years, the cyber 
threat has been increasing and is at a 
very high level, placing great demands 
on jyske bank’s it security level. the so-
phistication with which cyber attacks are 
carried out is at an unprecedentedly high 
level and therefore multi-level protection 
is required. 
strategy	and	efforts
our approach to protection from cyber 
threats involves several types of efforts:
• 
in-depth understanding of threats 
and who the threat actors are
through continuous monitoring of cyber 
activity and analysis of the techniques, 
tactics and attack procedures used by 
the threat actors, we can better under-
stand our security measures and be as 
prepared as possible if we fall victim of an 
attack.
• 
detection capability and robust it 
platform to prevent an attack
attempted attacks must be detected as 
soon as possible, and we should ideally 
be proactively protected if an attack 
succeeds in gaining a foothold. this is 
done through in-depth security moni-
toring, secure configurations of our it, a 
high patch level, strict management of 
permissions, etc. data traffic is analysed 
to identify unwanted security behaviour, 
and this helps detect and prevent the 
success of an attack.
• 
containment and effective control of 
attacks 
in the event that an attack succeeds in 
gaining a foothold in it systems, it is im-
portant that we have security measures 
in place that can also ensure containment 
and effective control of the attack. if 
the attack succeeds in causing damage, 
effective recovery is also an important 
security measure.
high level of security
our it security policy and strategy stip-
ulate the requirements and frameworks 
for and direction of our management and 
implementation of a high it security level. 
over the past three years, jyske bank has 
implemented and achieved 
significant improvements in the it 
security level. extraordinary investments 
have been made in raising the operational 
level of our key it suppliers, jn data and 
bankdata, and we have also upgraded the 
internal resources in this area at jyske 
bank. prompted by the it security policy, 
we have implemented new best practice 
tools and increased the resources in our 
security operating centre. 
testing the level of security
there is regular reporting of the con-
dition of the level of security. as part of 
compliance with the security policy, in-
depth checks and tests are also carried 
out to determine whether our level of se-
curity is sufficiently high. for this reason, 
red team tests have been carried out 
using the best suppliers on the market. 
jyske bank is also a participant in the na-
tional cyber test programme, under the 
tiber-dk framework, which aims to test 
cyber resilience in the event of an attack 
by highly advanced threat actors. our 
latest red team test in 2020 confirms a 
very high it security level at jyske bank.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 22 of 44
it and data security 
systems are not enough – behaviour is crucial
in week 43, we had an internal focus on cybersecurity. all employees watched a film about a – fortunately fictional – cyber attack on 
jyske bank. the film was followed by an e-learning module including knowledge tests and flashcards with precautions to take in the 
event of crashes.
the threat is very topical and we can report that we have been exposed to threats that have resulted in crashes at other big compa-
nies – all of these were detected and contained at jyske bank.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 23 of 44
as a responsible employer, jyske bank 
works to ensure an attractive workplace 
that guarantees job satisfaction, equal 
rights and development opportunities for 
all employees.
committed, competent, dynamic and 
responsible employees are important 
prerequisites for the jyske bank group’s 
success. the group must therefore be 
able to attract, develop and retain em-
ployees with the competencies, behav-
iour and attitudes needed to achieve the 
bank’s strategies and targets. 
job satisfaction
a good working environment is the key 
to job satisfaction. it is important that we 
each feel the greatest possible job satis-
faction and commitment in our everyday 
life, and that we have the best possible 
framework for development and a good 
day-to-day life. we aim to strike a good 
work-life balance. 
we focus on both the physical and psy-
chosocial working environment. since 
2012, the group has had a dedicated 
working environment organisation 
with professional working environment 
consultants and representatives who 
work on working environment issues 
full-time. the working environment 
work is characterised by a preventive, 
holistic, visible and integrated approach. 
focusing on the health and well-being 
of employees, we offer healthy canteen 
food, a fruit scheme, group-paid advice 
for quitting smoking, small-scale exercise 
programmes and access to a network of 
external physiotherapists and occupa-
tional therapists, among other things. 
when it comes to mental health and 
well-being, the dialogue tool “træd tidligt 
til” [step in early] supports an open dia-
logue between employee and manager, 
and provides the opportunity to connect 
with external advisors. in 2020, employ-
ee safety, and primarily the prevention 
and handling of violent and harassment 
incidents with customers, has been a 
focus area.
an employee survey is conducted for 
the entire group every two years – in 
the intervening years, there is follow-up 
measurement based on action plans 
from the most recent measurement. 
the employee survey focuses on com-
mitment, job satisfaction and loyalty, and 
also contains relevant working environ-
ment questions relating to the physical 
and psychosocial working environment. 
response rates have been high since the 
first survey in 2016, and peaked in 2020 
at 96 per cent. 
equal rights and diversity
the jyske bank group respects human 
rights. they are the foundation for a safe, 
fair and just society, with equal rights, 
inclusion, labour rights, health and safety 
and are values rooted in our policy. jyske 
bank makes a continuous and conscious 
effort to respect human rights and en-
courages employees, via an open culture, 
to speak out against discrimination and 
violations.
the jyske bank group’s collective agree-
ment protects employees’ basic rights, 
and approximately 9/10 of employees are 
covered by their conditions of employ-
ment. the collective agreement covers, 
among other things, working hours, com-
pensation for loss of earnings, holiday, 
illness, etc. in addition, just under 1/10 of 
employees have provisions in their indi-
vidual contracts that refer to the terms of 
the collective agreement.
 
the annual review of the group’s equal 
pay statistics does not show any pay 
differences that need to be corrected. 
that is to say that for roles where there 
is a difference in pay between men and 
women, there are valid grounds for this.
we cooperate with and involve our 
employees’ union representatives in im-
portant employee matters, both ad hoc 
and via the formal cooperation bodies, 
and we fully respect our employees’ right 
to organise.
diversity
we believe that diversity in the workforce 
contributes positively to performance 
and development. as a company, we want 
to reflect the society around us as far as 
possible. we are committed to ensuring 
that all employees have equal access to 
development and career opportunities, 
regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, reli-
gion or other factors.
responsible employer 
70:20:10
in 2020, there was also an increased focus on holding courses and learning activities online, and the 70:20:10 model was practised 
widely and in earnest throughout the group. 70:20:10 is the mutual weighting we want to give learning in the form of online learning 
(70%), peer learning (20%) and external learning activities (10%). 
virtual activities offer greater flexibility for the participant both physically and temporarily, they are less resource intensive, e.g. in 
terms of transport and hotel accommodation, and they are also easier to manage in terms of enrolment and attendance.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 24 of 44
the same applies when filling positions, 
where all candidates can apply regard-
less of gender, age, ethnicity, religion or 
other factors that are not significant for 
performing the job. 
at the end of 2020, the proportion of 
female managers is 26%, compared with 
29% at the end of 2019. organisational 
changes and the reduction of the man-
agement team in the largest business 
unit, where there are traditionally many 
female managers, have had a negative 
effect on the overall proportion of female 
managers. the proportion of women 
on the group’s management training 
programmes starting in 2020 is 33%, 
compared with 35% in 2019. however, 
some of the management programmes 
were postponed until 2021 as a result of 
covid-19. 
going forward, we will focus more on 
uncovering potential and concentrate 
our efforts on accelerated development 
pathways. 
gender diversity on the board
with effect from the 2020 annual general 
meeting, the supervisory board has 
four female members (two elected by 
the shareholders and two elected by 
the employees) out of 11 members. in 
2020, therefore, jyske bank had already 
achieved its target for 2021, which is for 
an equal distribution in accordance with 
the danish business authority’s guide-
lines of march 2016.
development opportunities and 
training
jyske bank wants to give its employees 
the opportunity for continuous train-
ing and development, thus ensuring 
high-level competencies and profession-
alism, and making them a sought-after 
and valuable workforce. this also applies 
to future employees. thus, the contribu-
tion to young people’s access to jobs and 
training is an essential element of our so-
cial responsibility. jyske bank has a formal 
development programme for graduates 
and regularly makes internships avail-
able to both bachelors of finance and 
students. 
in 2021, we will be continuing our current 
initiatives and development programmes 
for recent graduates. we also want to 
strengthen our relationship with educa-
tional institutions. 
in order to keep employees’ competency 
and professionalism at a high level that at 
least satisfies current legal requirements, 
the group offers a wide range of training 
opportunities, both in the form of internal 
targeted learning modules and gener-
al support for other external training, 
including learning via finanskompet-
encepuljen [the financial competence 
pool]. topics for internal activities include 
it security, secure behaviour and meet-
ing facilitation. at manager level, topics 
include feedback and feedforward, and 
the manager’s role as a skills developer. 
to stimulate interest in skills develop-
ment and ensure cohesion between 
public and private study programmes, the 
group has been awarding ects credits 
for selected internal training courses 
since 2010.
number
2021 
target
2020
2019
2018 
graduates
15
13
15
4
bachelors of finance
25
25
15
26
when covid-19 hit denmark in the 
spring, it changed the everyday lives of 
many of our employees. from the start, 
jyske bank has followed the authori-
ties’ guidelines and recommendations 
with respect for both the individual 
business areas and the individual 
employee. 
many employees have worked from 
home for short or long periods. this 
has meant a change to the workday in 
terms of setting, activities and social 
relations with colleagues. the focus 
has continually been on changes in the 
employees’ physical and psychosocial 
working environment, and information 
about working positions, ergonomics 
and movement during the working 
day has been sent out from a central 
function. initiatives have been taken 
locally to strengthen social and collegial 
relationships with, fx online bingo, 
online lunches and coffee breaks, and a 
friday bar.
our departments have been partially 
closed at times and customers have 
been asked to make an appointment 
with their advisor before a meeting. 
it has been important for us to look 
after our employees while also being 
available to our customers and advising 
them as best we can in a challenging 
time. 
cooperation between colleagues and 
customers have had to take new and 
different paths. in 2020, we have thus 
taken a leap forward in the use of digital 
solutions, and we have gained valuable 
experience of conducting virtual meet-
ings and webinars. this benefits both 
customers and employees, and we will 
make use of this experience in digital 
solutions in the future.
a very different workday
trends in number of graduates and bachelors of finance at jyske bank
sustainable banking operations
facts about jyske bank’s wind turbine
• 
type: vestas v136 4.2 mw
• 
location: port of hirtshals
• 
erected q4 2019
• 
taken over on 1 july 2020
• 
16.1 gwh produced in 2020
• 
8.6 gwh produced in the second half of 2020
fun facts about the wind turbine
• 
1 revolution in 2020 could charge 185 smartphones 
• 
an electric vehicle could drive 153 km on one minute’s pro-
duction
jyske bank has an impact on the climate, 
and although the biggest impact relates 
to our business activities, we are working 
actively to reduce the impact we have as 
a company. we believe that this gives us 
credibility and provides a good basis for 
dialogue with our customers.
we support the danish and inter-
national targets of reducing co2 
emissions by 2030, and we are 
constantly working to minimise our 
co2 emissions from activities such 
as transport, energy consumption 
and purchasing.
in 2020, jyske bank’s co2 emis-
sions excluding business activities 
amounted to 7,525 tonnes, a 
reduction of 14% compared 
with 2019.
energy 
consumption
we reported our co2 emissions 
for the first time in 2020.  the co2 
reported numbers stated that 67% 
of emissions in 2019 were due to 
the consumption of electricity. for 
several years we have purchased 
co2 certificates to compensate for 
our overall emissions, but in 2020 
we decided that in the future we will 
produce renewable energy our-
selves corresponding to the bank’s 
own electricity consumption and 
the bank’s share of bankdata’s and 
jn data’s electricity consumption. that 
is why we acquired a wind turbine, in the 
summer of 2020, that had just been built 
at the port of hirtshals. the wind turbine 
is part of denmark’s first wind farm to be 
built without government support. 
we believe that it is important to continu-
ally reduce our energy consumption, even 
if the wind turbine produces the elec-
tricity that we consume. that is why we 
installed energy management systems 
at all locations in 2020 to monitor and 
streamline our energy consumption. 
green car policy
we support the transition to greener 
transport and the danish government’s 
goals in this area, and we therefore 
installed more electric charging stations 
in 2020. the charging stations have been 
installed at publicly accessible locations 
and can be used by everyone. we have 
also decided that in 2021 we will start 
replacing our own cars with low-emis-
sion vehicles, thereby reducing our co2 
emissions.
purchasing
at jyske bank, we have taken ethical, en-
vironmental, political and social consid-
erations into account in connection with 
purchasing for the group for many years. 
we purchase sustainable products when 
it makes sense to do so and supports 
recycling in our consumption.
waste
the sdg index in the sustainable 
development report 2020 states that 
electronic waste is a major challenge 
in denmark. our impact analysis also 
showed that waste is an area where jyske 
bank has a significant impact. 
at jyske bank, we have for many years 
ensured that our discarded it equipment 
is reused, either through a professional 
partner or through the donation of pcs 
to social projects. in 2020 85% of the 
group’s it equipment was recycled. 
in 2021, we will continue to work on how 
we can reduce our waste volume and 
ensure that as much as possible of our 
waste is recycled.
safety vs sustainability
at jyske bank, we work actively to 
minimise our consumption and 
waste, and in connection with this 
we stopped using single-use plastics 
several years ago. 
due to the covid-19 pandemic, it 
has been necessary to serve food to 
our employees in single-use plastic for 
large periods in 2020 to ensure safety 
and reduce the risk of infection in our 
workplaces.
target
we want to offset our co2 emissions 
from electricity, heating and driving 
the bank’s cars with our own produc-
tion of renewable energy by the end 
of 2022.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 25 of 44
through our business activities, jyske 
bank contributes to financial security 
and a good life – all life – for many people. 
a good life is also about well-being and 
social relations between people, which is 
the focal point of our social initiatives.
 
jyske bank has chosen to engage in a 
number of different social projects and 
initiatives where we see opportunities to 
make a difference with our resources and 
competencies. we are happy to work as 
part of non-traditional partnerships with 
other companies, the public sector or civil 
society organisations.
from food waste to meals
jyske bank, in partnership with so-
cio-economics company fødevare-
banken [danish food bank], has been 
securing meals for socially disadvantaged 
citizens while also reducing food waste 
in denmark since 2012. the basis for the 
organizations work is that they receive 
surplus food daily from food producers 
and wholesalers that social organisations 
turn into meals. 
in 2021, we will host a minimum of five 
events in partnership with the danish 
food bank, which will ensure the visibility 
of the project.
combatting loneliness 
the partnership with the folkebevægels-
en mod ensomhed [people’s movement 
against loneliness] is also based on food 
and people. as early as in 2015, jyske 
bank committed itself to combatting 
loneliness in partnership with more than 
80 organisations, associations, munici-
palities and companies. we support the 
apolitical organisation and our shared 
vision that no one in denmark should be 
affected by chronic loneliness. we partici-
pate in the annual campaign danmark 
spiser sammen [denmark eats togeth-
er], which establishes communities over 
a meal and contributes to many people’s 
fight against loneliness. in 2020, the cam-
paign was virtual due to covid-19. in 
2021, jyske bank will host a minimum of 
three events.
in 2021, we will enter into a new part-
nership with flere i fællesskaber [more 
people in communities], which aims to 
contribute to the fight against loneliness.
young people and education
jyske bank has supported the kloge 
hænder [skilled hands] project, which 
aims to address the current challenges of 
too few young people choosing vocation-
al education. in three pilot projects, the 
oldest students in primary and lower sec-
ondary school have gained practice-ori-
ented insight into vocational education 
and career opportunities. we hope that 
the experience gained from the project 
can be rolled out nationally. jyske bank’s 
involvement in the project is considered 
complete in 2020. an evaluation report 
has been prepared that can be found on 
our website. 
voluntary work
jyske bank takes a positive view of 
employees’ social and voluntary com-
mitment and approves voluntary work 
outside working hours in a large number 
of cases. employees may, to a reasonable 
extent, use the bank’s resources such 
as printers, e-mail, telephones, meeting 
rooms, etc. to support their voluntary work.
for a number of years, jyske bank has 
supported the debt counselling work 
of the ministry of social affairs and the 
interior and a number of organisations by 
offering employees paid time off for half 
of the time they spend on this voluntary 
work. there are currently 15 employees 
who are active debt counsellors.
social engagement 
physical exercise contributes to well-being – no matter what age you are
jyske bank cooperates with the danish cyclists’ federation and supports the “alle børn cykler” [all children cycle] campaign – a 
well-functioning and popular school campaign with over 100,000 students participating each year. jyske bank encourages the 
whole family to go cycling and is on hand with food and a number of other fun cycling activities – we call it jyske cykelhygge 
[jyske cycling fun].
are you more into exercising your brain?
then try “tæt på tænkepauser” – a new partnership with aarhus university. “tæt på tænkepauser” are small books full of big ideas. 
in just 60 pages, researchers from aarhus university share what they know about their specialist field. anyone interested can take 
part in the live digital events, where the focus is on a tænkepause book and its author.
two banks working 
together in 2020
fødevarebankens       
[danish food bank’s] 
272 volunteers 
have distributed 1.4 
tonnes of food. this 
corresponds to 3.5 m 
meals.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 26 of 44
we aim to operate a responsible bank 
that ensures and promotes a healthy 
corporate culture that is characterised by 
high ethical and professional standards. 
at jyske bank, we always comply with 
applicable legislation and also live up to 
the expectations that our stakeholders 
rightly have of us, whether it is a matter 
of good practice or preventing financial 
crime.
jyske bank’s most important stakehold-
ers are shareholders, customers and 
employees, and the target is to ensure 
an appropriate balancing of the interests 
of these three groups. this supports a 
long-term and balanced business devel-
opment so that more short-term and 
one-sided transactions that favour one 
of the groups can be avoided. thus, no 
customer or other business partner is so 
important that we are prepared to com-
promise on our responsibility, which is 
more important to us than our earnings.
the foundation of a healthy  
corporate culture
we support open communication and 
we want decision-making processes that 
encourage the involvement of a wide 
range of views. we do this by upholding 
the value honest, which generally invites 
open and straightforward dialogue. 
we also want to be as transparent as 
possible, both internally and external-
ly. that is why we are happy to publish 
relevant policies and data and work with 
authorities when it comes to supervision, 
procedures and specific cases. this also 
means that if mistakes are made, we are 
open about these, and we correct and 
learn from them.
should a situation arise where open 
communication and dialogue are not 
the solution, the whistleblower scheme 
allows employees to anonymously report 
(potential) violations of financial regula-
tions or suspected serious misconduct 
that may have an impact on the group or 
on the life or health of individuals.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 27 of 44
healthy corporate culture 
the policy on a healthy corporate culture sets out general guidelines that outline responsible and sensible behaviour for all the 
group’s employees.
a number of these conditions are further specified in other policies, e.g.
• 
remuneration policy
• 
policy for managing conflicts of interest
• 
tax policy
• 
anti-bribery and corruption policy
• 
whistleblower policy
• 
competency requirements, good practice and ethical con-
duct
• 
policy for preventing money laundering, financing of terror-
ism and sanctions violations
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 28 of 44
responsible advice
when dealing with customers, our 
employees are expected to act with 
honesty and integrity and to offer our 
customers financial advice that takes 
individual considerations into account, 
meets their needs and adds value, 
thereby enabling them to make decisions 
on a well-informed basis. with regards 
to lending, it may be a case of ensuring 
that the customer, after buying a home 
for example, continues to have sound 
personal finances. it is all about knowing 
your customer. 
at the same time, jyske bank has chosen 
not to make use of performance-based 
pay, which can lead to short-term and 
one-sided decisions that have a detri-
mental effect on the long-term value 
creation, needs and targets of custom-
ers, shareholders and the group. this 
means that there is no conflict of interest 
between the employee and the custom-
er. for example, by selling products that 
the customer may not need. 
with its tax policy, jyske bank wants the 
group to live up to its corporate social re-
sponsibility and meet legitimate expecta-
tions of proper and honest business con-
duct that reflects the group’s values. the 
group pursues a value-based tax policy 
that ensures we provide adequate cus-
tomer-related tax advice on our products 
and services, which we are obligated to 
do pursuant to applicable legislation. our 
value-based tax policy also means that 
we do not provide aggressive tax advice, 
but instead advice that is in accordance 
with legislators’ intentions in tax legisla-
tion. the framework for our tax advice 
is embodied in a number of fact sheets 
that are also available to our customers. 
we will never advise on any interpretation 
of the rules other than the one set out in 
these fact sheets, nor on tax in areas not 
mentioned in the fact sheets. 
education and learning support a 
healthy corporate culture 
to comply with the legislation to which 
jyske bank is subject and to ensure 
that customers receive competent and 
professional advice, there is a continuous 
focus on maintaining and upgrading the 
professional knowledge of employees. 
this involves all employees in the group 
completing a number of mandatory train-
ing courses, such as money laundering 
training, and selected groups becoming 
idd- and red-certified. 
an adequate and up-to-date offering 
of both statutory and non-statutory 
learning activities within the compliance 
area supports an in-depth knowledge of 
rules, legislation and signals of criminal 
behaviour. completion of mandatory 
training is managed and recorded in jyske 
bank’s lms. this ensures an overview of 
and follow-up on the implementation of 
the training activities. requirements for 
follow-up of mandatory activities have 
been agreed and approved by the compli-
ance area.    
anders dam and jyske bank 
honoured with fsr - marsh 
erhvervspris 2020 [fsr – 
marsh business award 2020]
the award is given to a unique 
and innovative person who has 
made every effort to ensure that 
danish companies are run fairly, 
compete on equal terms and 
treat everyone equally. 
the chair of fsr – danske 
revisorer also acknowledged 
the efforts to ensure honesty 
and compliance, stressing the 
importance of companies 
navigating according to an ethi-
cal compass, and trust within the 
danish business community.
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 29 of 44
prevention of financial crime
it and data security
objective
preventing financial crime, and efforts to prevent money 
laundering and the financing of terrorism, are a top priori-
ty at jyske bank.  we want to prevent the bank from being 
misused for illegal purposes in all respects.
achieve and maintain a level of security that 
• 
is sufficient to address the current cyber threat with 
elements that are “best in class”. 
• 
ensures that the risks that it use entails and is 
expected to entail are at an acceptable level for the 
group.
progress and
performance 
2020
• 
in 2020, monitoring of customers and their transac-
tions triggered 29,598 alarms, 3,368 of which were 
reported to the money laundering secretariat.
• 
withdrawal limits for the bank’s atms have been 
reduced further so that the limit from 6 pm until 9 am 
is more than halved, and the withdrawal limit from 9 
am until 6 pm is halved.
• 
several precautions to increase resilience to cyber 
threats, including improvements in the ability to 
“repel”, “detect” and “contain” attacks that are at best 
practice level.
• 
in the time that we have had these new precautions 
in place, we have not had any losses or errors due to 
cyber incidents. we have had unprecedented insight 
into threats and risks to the group. 
• 
our security operation centre, which monitors and 
protects our it environment against cyber attacks, is 
one of the best in denmark and recognised accredi-
tation for this is expected in early 2021.
targets 2021
prevention of financial crime is ensured through, among 
other measures, continuous training and education of 
employees, clear processes and guidelines, and systematic 
monitoring and reporting. this work will continue in 2021.
in addition, we will continuously look at whether initiatives 
can be taken to reduce the risk of misuse of the bank.
it security is and must be a high-priority area in the 
future. we have achieved a strong level of security, but 
we are constantly and consistently working to increase 
resilience. 
societal 
challenges
there is a high inherent risk that jyske bank may be mis-
used for money laundering or financing terrorism, partly 
because of our size and partly because of our business 
model, which contains a number of products and cus-
tomers with high inherent risk. 
the sophistication with which cyber attacks are carried 
out is at an unprecedentedly high level and protection 
against cyber attacks requires protection on multiple lev-
els. the risk of fraud on behalf of our customers, including 
whether customers are exploited through the use of our 
services, is high. we have observed that customers are 
increasingly being exposed to scams that are becoming 
ever more creative.
risks
• 
in terms of our reputation in general, there is a risk 
that our stakeholders will abandon us if we do not act 
responsibly.
• 
errors and shortcomings in our efforts may result in 
orders from the danish financial supervisory author-
ity and, in the worst case, affect stakeholders’ confi-
dence in our handling of financial crime prevention.
• 
specific cases of, for example, money laundering may 
result in police reports, negative press coverage and 
an immediate fall in the share price.
• 
specific cases will affect jyske bank’s esg rating for 
several years, thus potentially restricting access to 
equity and debt investors.
• 
specific cases of it and data security breaches may 
result in police reports, negative press coverage and 
an immediate fall in the share price.
• 
in terms of our reputation in general, there is a risk 
that our stakeholders will abandon us if we do not act 
responsibly.
• 
errors and shortcomings in our efforts may affect the 
confidence of customers, investors and partners in 
particular and may result in orders from the danish 
financial supervisory authority.
• 
specific cases will affect jyske bank’s esg rating for 
several years, thus potentially restricting access to 
equity and debt investors.
governance
a member of the executive management is responsible 
for the money laundering area. the bank has also ap-
pointed a money laundering reporting officer.
the executive management has overall responsibility 
for it and data security, and the it security function is 
responsible for day-to-day operations. the group has 
appointed a data protection officer.
policies
policy for preventing money laundering, financing of 
terrorism and sanctions violations.
anti-bribery and corruption policy.
it security policy.
privacy policy.
sdg
16.4
16.5
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 30 of 44
working environment
diversity
objective
a good and safe working environment that contributes to 
job satisfaction.
ensure that the group has the best possible managers 
and employees with good personal qualities and profes-
sional competencies.
access to development and career opportunities for all 
employees, including seeking to increase the proportion 
of female managers.
progress and
performance 
2020
• 
holding meetings and workshops aimed at depart-
ments with the most customer contact and with a 
predominance of new employees with a focus on 
preventing and dealing with episodes where cus-
tomers are abusive, threatening or violent towards 
employees. 
• 
the danish working environment authority has car-
ried out two risk-based inspections – both with green 
smileys (nothing to report).
• 
update of the group’s basis for work with the psy-
chosocial working environment (latest research and 
align with the group’s management model, values 
and employee survey).
• 
equal gender distribution among new employees 
(55/45 – m/f). 
• 
maintaining the number of flex jobs (2020: 17). 
• 
positive experiences from employing applicants with 
a more diverse educational background. 
• 
the proportion of female managers is 26% at the end 
of 2020. 
• 
the proportion of women on the group’s manage-
ment programmes starting in 2020 is 33%. 
• 
no pay differences to be corrected on review of the 
group’s equal pay statistics. that is to say that for 
roles where there is a difference in pay in favour of 
either men or women, there are valid grounds for this.
targets 2021
continue to ensure a healthy and safe working environ-
ment for all employees and focus on preventing violence 
and threats.
development and organisation of own working envi-
ronment training in line with the statutory training in the 
sector.
increased focus on uncovering potential and concentrat-
ing efforts on accelerated development pathways. 
societal 
challenges
lack of job satisfaction among jyske bank employees 
may result in the bank losing valuable and competent em-
ployees in the long term and finding it difficult to attract 
new ones. employee job satisfaction are central to the 
bank’s success, as it is in their interaction with customers 
that the bank’s business is created and maintained. focus 
on health and well-being helps retain existing employees 
and attract new ones. 
lack of diversity can potentially lead to the group not 
having the best possible managers and employees with 
both good personal qualities and the necessary profes-
sional competencies. at the same time, there is a low pro-
portion of women in the education segments from which 
we normally recruit. 
risks
• 
poor physical and psychosocial working environment, 
resulting in lack of motivation, stress, increased 
absence due to illness or more occupational injuries.
• 
unsafe working environment due to lack of focus on 
preventing occupational injury.
• 
challenges retaining and attracting qualified employ-
ees.
• 
customers, potential employees and other stake-
holders will abandon us if we do not act responsibly.
• 
lack of diversity can present challenges in retaining 
and attracting qualified employees.
• 
lack of diversity can result in lower esg ratings than 
peers, thus limiting access to certain equity and debt 
investors.
governance
medarbejderudvalget [the employee committee] is re-
sponsible for the working environment within the group, 
and team arbejdsmiljø [team working environment] 
is responsible for day-to-day operations and develop-
ment, and ensures compliance with the danish working 
environment act.
medarbejderudvalget[the employee committee] is 
responsible for subjects related to diversity within the 
group
policies
hr policy.
diversity policy.
sdg
3.4                     8.8
5.5                     8.5                       10.3          
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 31 of 44
sustainable banking operations
social engagement
objective
we want to reduce our negative impact on society and 
believe that even small steps help.
we wish to contribute to the focus on social issues by 
bringing our own skills and resources into play.
progress and
performance 
2020
• 
we purchased a wind turbine that produces renew-
able energy and covers our own electricity con-
sumption and our share of jn data’s and bankdata’s 
electricity consumption.
• 
we have set up energy management systems in all 
locations.
• 
85% of the group’s it equipment was recycled in 2020.
• 
71 tonnes of food waste from our canteens was sent 
to bio-waste, reducing co2 emissions by 51 tonnes. 
• 
a further 6 electric charging stations have been set 
up at our branches. these charging stations can be 
used by everyone.
• 
we have reduced our paper consumption by 38%, far 
exceeding our 2020 target of a 10% reduction.
• 
supported folkebevægelsen mod ensomheds 
[people’s movement against loneliness’s] digital 
campaign danmark spiser sammen [denmark eats 
together].
• 
contributed to fødevarebanken [danish food bank] 
delivering 1,4 tonnes of surplus food on a daily basis, 
which has ended up as 3,5 m meals for socially disad-
vantaged people in denmark.
• 
the kloge hænder [skilled hands] project has been 
completed in 2020 after three successful pilot pro-
jects.
• 
we have donated furniture to ringkøbing station and 
to blå kors egåhus.
targets 2021
• 
we will offset our co2 emissions from heating, elec-
tricity and the bank’s own vehicles at latest by the end 
of 2022.
• 
we will start replacing the bank’s cars with low-emis-
sion vehicles in 2021.
• 
media partner in the flere i fællesskaber [more peo-
ple in communities] project and bring attention to 
efforts to combat loneliness.
• 
co-organiser of danmark spiser sammen [denmark 
eats together] in at least three towns.
• 
arranging five or more events in partnership with the 
fødevarebanken [danish food bank] to increase the 
awareness of  disadvantaged citizens and food waste.
societal 
challenges
the world’s co2 emissions are too high and rapid action is 
needed to reduce climate change. major changes need to 
be made to achieve denmark’s target of a 70% reduction 
in emissions by 2030 compared with 1990, and finding 
the right path in the transition towards a greener society 
can be confusing, but we all need to take action now and 
reduce our footprints. 
many people increasingly feel that their social needs are 
not being met to a sufficient extent – they have too few 
close relationships.  before the covid-19 pandemic, 
there were more than 350,000 people over the age of 16 
in denmark who often felt lonely. public authorities are 
not up to the task, which is why partnerships between civil 
society, the public sector and companies are necessary.  
risks
• 
our electricity consumption can significantly 
increase as a result of higher outdoor temperatures 
in the summer, challenging the bank’s target of 
offsetting its co2 emissions and leading to additional 
costs even though we are actively working to reduce 
consumption through, for example, energy optimisa-
tion.
• 
clients and other stakeholders will take their business 
elsewhere if we do not live up to their expectations of 
the actions a company should take in terms of green 
transition, both when it comes to our own buildings 
and when purchasing products and services from 
external suppliers.
• 
our reputation will be at risk if jyske bank does not 
participate actively enough in partnerships or if 
projects are not implemented and expectations are 
thereby not met. 
• 
a lack of internal and external understanding of the 
project objectives due to the long-term perspective.
• 
lengthy implementation horizon caused by having to 
coordinate efforts among many partners.
governance
the sustainability committee is responsible for realising 
the bank’s ambitions. 
our work with our partners is consolidated in the ir & 
sustainability department.
policies
policy on sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility.
procurement policy.
responsible supplier conduct.
policy on sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility.
sdg
7.2                     12.3                   13.2
                             12.5
2.1                  3.4                    8.6                   12.3                 17.17
responsible banking operations  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 32 of 44
healthy corporate culture
objective
to minimise the risk of the bank being misused in any way 
for financial crime, including money laundering, financing 
of terrorism, tax evasion, dividend fraud, social fraud and 
other unlawful acts
progress and
performance 
2020
in 2020, we increased the specialisation of our private 
advisors. following a change in the organisation of the 
personal clients area, there are now advisors special-
ized in the following areas: housing, credit, investment 
and pension. this contributes to ensuring qualified and 
value-creating advice.
targets 2021
all employees to complete mandatory money laundering 
training (completed every two years)
focus on education in sustainable investment, including 
the integration of esg preferences in advisory processes 
and tools.
societal 
challenges
jyske bank is obliged to continually analyse the risks to 
which the bank is exposed. documentation requirements 
and clarifying questions that may be experienced nega-
tively by the customer must therefore be balanced in rela-
tion to the role of the advisor, who is committed to and 
wishes to provide responsible and value-creating advice.
governance
at the end of the year, money laundering and sanctions 
carry out an assessment of the content and effective-
ness of the policy and ensure relevant changes and clarifi-
cations are made in policy, methods and activities.
implementation and compliance with the healthy cor-
porate culture policy is included in the chairman of the 
supervisory board’s report to the annual general meeting. 
risks
• 
customers, potential employees and other stake-
holders will abandon us if we do not act responsibly.
• 
if greater consideration is given to earnings than 
compliance with legislation, this could impose an 
unnecessary high financial risk on the bank.
• 
a lack of transparency and the opportunity to report 
suspicious circumstances could result in any criminal 
offences being discovered at a late stage, resulting in 
financial losses and damage to our reputation.
• 
mis-selling and/or failure to comply with good prac-
tice could result in bad publicity, losing customers and 
potential lawsuits over liability.
policies
healthy corporate culture policy
anti-bribery and corruption policy
whistleblower policy 
tax policy 
policy for managing conflicts of interest
competency requirements, good practice and ethical 
conduct
sdg
8.10                  16.4
                            16.5
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 33 of 44
policies and principles
principles
our work on sustainability and corporate social responsibility is based on a number of national and internal standards.
policies
our policies are central to our work on sustainabilily. the policies that have a particularly great impact on our work are listed below.
general
policy on sustainability and corporate social responsibility
sustainable business
credit policy
responsible investments policy
responsible banking
anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy
diversity policy
policy for preventing money laundering, financing of terrorism and sanctions violations
whistleblower policy
tax policy
healthy corporate culture policy
policy for managing conflicts of interest
hr policy
it security policy
privacy policy
remuneration policy
freedom of association and collective agreement policy
procurement policy
20 recommendations from the forum for sustainable finance
since 2016, jyske bank has been committed 
to the un global compact corporate 
responsibility initiative and its principles 
in the areas of human rights, labour, the 
environment and anti-corruption.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 34 of 44
unit
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
environmental data
scope 1                                                                                                    
scope 2  
scope 3                                                                                                  
energy consumption                                                                                      
energy intensity per fte                                                                 
proportion of renewable energy                                                              
tonne co2e
tonne co2e
tonne co2e
gj
gj/fte
%
738
6,082
705
92,342
23
86
759
6,567
1,464
91,844
18
83
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
social data
full-time equivalents at end of year                                                                                        
gender diversity                                                                                     
gender diversity in management                                                        
pay difference between genders                                                                    
employee turnover                                    
sickness-related absence                                                                                               
taxes paid                                                                                                
fte
%
%
times
%
days/fte
dkk million
3,349
48.0
26.4
1.18
14.7
5.3
1,153
3,614
49.3
29.4
1.18
10.7
5.5
1,378
3,723
49.7
29.3
1.16
11.4
5.7
1,075
3,971
51.0
30.9
1.17
9.4
5.6
1,289
3,981
50.9
30.3
1.17
10.9
5.2
1,177
management data 
supervisory board gender diversity                                                  
attendance at board meetings                          
pay difference between ceo and employees 
%
%
times
36.4
97.3
14.9
27.3
93.4
13.8
33.3
93.1
15.0
33.3
91.8
16.1
30.0
92.2
11.8
key	figures
esg ratings
score
comment
sustainalytics
medium risk
jyske bank is in the top 40% of best-rated financial institutions.
msci
a
jyske bank is in the top 50% of financial institutions.
iss esg
c-
jyske bank is one of the 20% best-rated financial institutions.
cdp
c
the financial sector’s average score is b
note: 
jyske bank also updates data on nasdaq’s platform.
jyske bank is included in the bloomberg gender-equality index. 
the index is an international standard for publication and reporting on data within five gender diversity areas: 
female leadership & talent pipeline, equal pay & gender pay parity, inclusive culture, sexual harassment policies and pro-women 
brand.
jyske bank has chosen to update data and have dialogue with selected esg raters. we regularly consider which esg raters are most relevant to 
jyske bank.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 35 of 44
accounting policies
environmental data
the co2e emission’s calculation is broken 
down in accordance with the ghg protocol 
scope 1–3 definitions. 
all environmental data in the calculation con-
sist of data for the jyske bank group as well 
as jyske bank’s ownership interests in jn data 
and bankdata. 
co2e emission factors from the danish 
business authority’s co2 calculator are used 
for conversion into emissions unless stated 
otherwise.
consumption data is provided for the period 
01/01/2020 to 31/12/2020.
scope 1
co2e emissions come from heating with 
natural gas and oil, and driving the bank’s own 
vehicles. 62% of the emissions from journeys 
driven using the bank’s own vehicles is cal-
culated on the basis of data for the individual 
vehicle model; for the remaining journeys 135 
gr co2 per km is used as the conversion factor.
scope 2
co2e emissions from district heating and 
electricity from external suppliers. co2e 
emissions for electricity have been calculated 
for the entire period, although jyske bank pur-
chased a wind turbine on 01/07/2020, which 
produces electricity equivalent to the group’s 
consumption.
16% of jyske bank’s heat consumption for 
2020 has been estimated based on 2019 
consumption, as this consumption concerns 
properties that jyske bank occupies for rent, 
and heating statements have not yet been 
received for 2020.
scope 3
co2e emissions regarding flights, taxis, 
trains and work-related journeys in employee 
cars and emissions based on paper con-
sumption. air traffic conversion factors have 
been received from hrg and train transport 
conversion factors have been provided by din 
offentlige transport [your public transport]. 
for remaining entries, erhvervsstyrelsens 
[the danish business authority’s] factors have 
been applied.
energy consumption
total energy consumption from scopes 1 and 
2 as well as energy from renewable energy 
sources. 
energy intensity per fte 
total energy consumption for 2020 divided by 
the number of full-time equivalents (fte) as at 
31/12/2020. 
renewable energy share
the calculation only contains energy from 
electricity and heating, and is calculated on the 
basis of the general energy mix for electricity 
and district heating for 2019 calculated by 
energinet and dansk fjernvarme. in addition, 
production of renewable energy from jyske 
banks vindmølle a/s from 01/07/2020 to 
31/12/20 20 is included, and purchased 
renewable energy certificates are included 
in the renewable energy share calculation for 
electricity.
social data
social data regarding employees, manage-
ment, salaries etc. only covers the jyske bank 
group. unless otherwise stated, social data is 
provided as at 31/12/2020.
full-time equivalents (fte) 
full-time equivalents include permanent and 
temporary employees.
gender diversity 
number of women compared to number of 
employees. permanent and temporary em-
ployees are included in the calculation.
gender diversity in management 
the number of female managers in propor-
tion to the total number of managers at the 
bank. managers are defined as members of 
the executive board and employees with 
personnel responsibility and/or professional 
responsibility. 
pay	difference	between	genders	
median pay for men in relation to median pay 
for women.
employee turnover 
the turnover is calculated as the number of 
employees who have left during the year in 
relation to the average number of employees 
as at 01/01/2020 and 31/12/2020.
sickness-related absence 
total number of employee sick days in relation 
to fte. employee sick days include the em-
ployee’s own sick leave, child illness and partial 
illness. maternity leave is not included. 
taxes paid 
the jyske bank group’s total tax payments, 
including property tax, vat, payroll tax and 
expensed corporation tax. 
management data
the management data covers data for 
the jyske bank group only. management 
data is provided as at 31/12/2020.
supervisory board gender diversity
proportion of female board members in 
relation to the number of members of the 
supervisory board. members elected by the 
employees are included in the calculation.
attendance at board meetings 
the number of board meetings at which the 
individual board member has been present, in 
relation to the number of board meetings held. 
pay	difference	between	ceo	and	
employees 
ceo’s total remuneration (including retirement 
remuneration) in relation to median salary for 
employees. 
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 36 of 44
reporting and self-assessment requirements
high-level summary of bank’s response 
reference(s)/
link(s) to bank’s full re-
sponse/relevant information
principle 1: alignment
we will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the 
sustainable development goals, the paris climate agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks.
1.1 describe (high-level) your bank’s business 
model, including the main customer segments 
served, types of products and services pro-
vided, the main sectors and types of activities, 
and where relevant the technologies financed 
across the main geographies in which your 
bank has operations or provides products and 
services.
jyske bank has denmark as the focal point of the 
group’s business model and has only limited busi-
ness activities with customers outside of denmark. 
however, the underlying investing activities for 
jyske bank’s customers are global by nature. 
jyske bank has a full-service set-up for danish cus-
tomers and a nationwide network of branches. 
jyske bank’s main activities consist of: 
banking, mortgage and investing activities for 
private customers, private banking customers and 
business customers, as well as trading and investing 
activities aimed at large business customers and in-
stitutional clients as well as automotive and equip-
ment leasing and financing activities for business. 
jyske bank has a market share of approx. 11%.
sustainability report 2020, 
business model p. 5
1.2 describe how your bank has aligned and/or 
is planning to align its strategy to be consist-
ent with and contribute to society’s goals, as 
expressed in the sustainable development 
goals (sdgs), the paris climate agreement, 
and relevant national and regional frameworks.
in 2020, jyske bank has been particularly focused 
on further developing its view of sustainable busi-
ness. this work has resulted in the overall approach 
that “all progress counts”.
taking this approach, we work both on the respon-
sible activities, which are already integrated into the 
bank’s operations, and with a strengthened focus 
on how we can promote sustainability through 
business activities such as lending and investing. 
in other words, we focus on supporting customer 
progress and facilitating customers’ sustaina-
ble choices and decisions. at present, there is a 
particular focus on the climate, which is a significant 
impact area for jyske bank.
sustainability report 2020, 
strategy p. 8
policy on sustainability and 
corporate social responsi-
bility pp. 2–5
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/gov-
ernance/code-of-conduct
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 37 of 44
principle 2: impact and target setting
we will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and en-
vironment resulting from our activities, products and services. to this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most 
significant impacts.
2.1 impact analysis:
show that your bank has identified the areas in 
which it has its most significant (potential) positive 
and negative impact through an impact analysis 
that fulfils the following elements: 
a) 
scope: the bank’s core business areas, prod-
ucts/services across the main geographies 
that the bank operates in as described under 
1.1. have been considered in the scope of the 
analysis.
b) scale of exposure: in identifying its areas of 
most significant impact the bank has consid-
ered where its core business/its major activities 
lie in terms of industries, technologies and 
geographies.
c) 
context & relevance:  your bank has taken 
into account the most relevant challenges and 
priorities related to sustainable development in 
the countries/regions in which it operates.
d) scale and intensity/salience of impact: in iden-
tifying its areas of most significant impact, the 
bank has considered the scale and intensity/
salience of the (potential) social, economic 
and environmental impacts resulting from the 
bank’s activities and provision of products and 
services.  
(your bank should have engaged with relevant 
stakeholders to help inform your analysis under 
elements c) and d)) 
show that, building on this analysis, the bank has 
•            identified and disclosed its areas of most sig-
nificant (potential) positive and negative impact
•            identified strategic business opportunities 
in relation to the increase of positive impacts/
reduction of negative impacts
jyske bank published its first impact analysis in 
2020. the analysis is based on the un’s portfolio 
impact analysis tool for banks. the tool targets 
loan activities, but jyske bank has chosen to also 
use it as a starting point for identifying the impact 
areas for investing activities.
the analysis materially covers the overall scope of 
jyske bank’s main activities as described in point 
1.1. 
the analysis shows that climate is a significant im-
pact area for jyske bank and denmark. in addition, 
waste and soil quality have also been identified as 
significant negative impact areas. the key positive 
impact areas are housing, climate and inclusive, 
sound economies.
in the analysis, we have continued to quantify the 
impact from climate. this has been done by esti-
mating co2e emissions for the scope of business 
covered, consisting of loans and investments.
we have currently designated a number of sustain-
able lending areas within the group’s green finance 
framework, increasing positive impact in relation to 
climate initiatives.
jyske bank also offers products such as energy 
loans and equity funds with a focus on sustainable 
development for both private and professional 
investors. 
sustainability report 2020, 
impact analysis p. 11
simplifies sustainable in-
vestment easy pp. 14–17
offers financing solutions 
that support sustainable 
transition, p. 12
prb impact analysis 
pp. 5–7
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/sus-
tainability
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding progress on implementing the principles  
for responsible banking.
we have completed our first impact analysis. the analysis materially covers our entire scope of business. having identified the most significant 
impact areas, we quantified the impact for climate in the form of estimated co2e emissions. going forward, we will focus on identifying further 
business opportunities based on the analysis and also further develop our methods for investments and improving data quality for co2e data. 
waste is the next impact area that we will analyse in greater detail.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 38 of 44
2.2 target setting  
 
show that the bank has set and published a 
minimum of two specific, measurable (can be 
qualitative or quantitative), achievable, rele-
vant and time-bound (smart) targets, which 
address at least two of the identified “areas 
of most significant impact”, resulting from the 
bank’s activities and provision of products and 
services.   
 
show that these targets are linked to and drive 
alignment with and greater contribution to 
appropriate sustainable development goals, 
the goals of the paris agreement, and other 
relevant international, national or regional 
frameworks. the bank should have identified 
a baseline (assessed against a particular year) 
and have set targets against this baseline. 
 
show that the bank has analysed and acknowl-
edged significant (potential) negative impacts 
of the set targets on other dimensions of the 
sdg/climate change/society’s goals and that it 
has set out relevant actions to mitigate those 
as far as feasible to maximize the net positive 
impact of the set targets. 
at present, jyske bank has the following sustaina-
bility targets:
sustainable targets 2020
1. 
financing of 4 twh renewable energy produc-
tion by 2025.
2. 
40% of new lending for the financing of vehicles 
shall be for low-emission vehicles by 2025.
3. 
jyske bank will develop products that assist and 
motivate clients to renovate their properties in 
a way that increases their energy performance.
responsible banking operations targets 2020
1. 
offsetting co2 emissions from electricity by 
producing our own renewable energy.
new targets 2021
1. 
an extra dkk 10 bn to finance sustainable 
commercial properties by 2025, from dkk 30 
bn to dkk 40 bn
2. 
offsetting co2 emissions from electricity, 
heating and company cars by producing our 
own renewable energy by the end of 2022. 
the current targets all aim to make a positive con-
tribution to the climate initiative. 
the impact analysis is based on 2019 figures and 
the analysis results represent our baseline and we 
will update these targets on the basis of results, 
including determining milestones for sustainable 
business targets. 
sustainability report 2020, 
targets p. 9
offers financing solutions 
that support sustainable 
transition, pp. 12–13
green finance framework 
pp. 5–10
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/sus-
tainability
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding target setting.
for the time being, we will continue with our targets set for sustainable business and sustainable banking operations. the targets will be updat-
ed in 2021. this will be done based on the impact analysis carried out.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 39 of 44
2.3 plans for target implementation and monitor-
ing 
 
show that your bank has defined actions and 
milestones to meet the set targets. 
 
show that your bank has put in place the means 
to measure and monitor progress against the 
set targets. definitions of key performance 
indicators, any changes in these definitions, and 
any rebasing of baselines should be transpar-
ent.  
jyske bank’s sustainability committee follows up 
on measures established on a quarterly basis and 
targets set on a bi-annual basis.
the board has sustainability on the agenda on a 
quarterly basis.
sustainability report 2020,   
governance p. 10
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding plans for target implementation and monitoring.
jyske bank has established overall targets and will follow up on these on a quarterly and bi-annual basis respectively. going forward, several 
specific measures are being implemented for sustainable business in the individual business units, providing more opportunities to follow 
progress in each unit.
2.4 progress on implementing targets 
 
for each target separately:  
 
show that your bank has implemented the 
actions it had previously defined to meet the 
set target. 
 
or explain why actions could not be imple-
mented/needed to be changed and how your 
bank is adapting its plan to meet its set target.   
 
report on your bank’s progress over the last 12 
months (up to 18 months in your first reporting 
after becoming a signatory) towards achiev-
ing each of the set targets and the impact 
your progress resulted in (where feasible and 
appropriate, banks should include quantitative 
disclosures).
sustainable business:
1. 
jyske bank has financed an additional 0.51 twh 
of renewable energy in 2020.
2. 
due to the change from the new european 
driving cycle (nedc) to the new standard 
wltp (worldwide harmonised light vehicle 
test procedure), progress for 2020 has not 
been reported.
3. 
jyske bank offers energy loans and land pur-
chase credits to private customers who wish to 
carry out energy renovations.  we offer a co2 
calculator through the “best home” app 
responsible banking operations:
1. 
offsetting the co2 emissions from electrici-
ty – completed, jyske bank purchased a wind 
turbine in the summer of 2020. 
sustainable business:
sustainability report 2020,   
offers financing solutions 
that support sustainable 
transition, pp. 12–13
green finance framework 
report 2020 p. 4
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/sus-
tainability
responsible banking 
operations
sustainability report 2020,
sustainable banking opera-
tions p. 25
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding impact analysis.
2020 has offered progress on all the targets set, and the targets are expected to be met by 2025. jyske bank will continue to set more targets 
and, as mentioned in point 2.2. above, will update targets in continuation of the impact analysis.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 40 of 44
principle 3: clients and customers
we will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that 
create shared prosperity for current and future generations. 
3.1 provide an overview of the policies and practic-
es your bank has in place and/or is planning to 
put in place to promote responsible relation-
ships with its customers. this should include 
high-level information on any programmes and 
actions implemented (and/or planned), their 
scale and, where possible, the results thereof. 
through our policies and our approach to our 
customers, we ensure a relationship characterised 
by responsibility, by emphasising a high level of 
competency for employees, transparency of our 
products and financial solutions, a healthy corpo-
rate culture and continuous focus on combatting 
financial crime and misuse of the bank. 
as a financial services company, there are a number 
of regulatory requirements that the bank meets 
and that form the basis for our interactions with 
customers. the executive order on good business 
practice for financial intitutions helps to generate 
the necessary confidence that jyske bank will not 
use misleading or incorrect information or omit 
important information that could affect customers’ 
behaviour.
sustainability report 2020,  
healthy corporate culture 
pp. 27–28
3.2 describe how your bank has worked with 
and/or is planning to work with its clients and 
customers to encourage sustainable practices 
and enable sustainable economic activities. 
this should include information on actions 
planned/implemented, products and services 
developed, and, where possible, the impacts 
achieved.
in 2020, we introduced an equity fund focused on 
sustainable development for both retail and profes-
sional customers, as well as energy loans and land 
purchase credits for homeowners. in early 2021, 
we started to issue payment cards made from 85% 
recyclable plastic, and we have just launched jyske 
kort rente grøn, our first green mortgage product 
for corporate clients. our ambition is to have sus-
tainable solutions for all essential business areas by 
the end of 2021.
in 2020, we focused on two areas in particular in our 
communication with our customers:
• 
energy renovation of homes
• 
best practice for businesses – a series of brief 
company portraits that tell the stories of our 
customers who have successfully integrated 
sustainability into their business models.
 
we have also been focusing on new methods and 
workflows in the area of sustainable investment, 
ensuring that we can display sustainability-related 
data in the future about those companies custom-
ers choose to invest in. 
sustainability report 2020, 
offers financing solutions 
that support sustainable 
transition, pp. 12–13
simplifies sustainable in-
vestment easy pp. 14–17
provides knowledge about 
sustainability, pp. 18–19
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 41 of 44
principle 4: stakeholders
we will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.
4.1 describe which stakeholders (or groups/types 
of stakeholders) your bank has consulted, 
engaged, collaborated or partnered with for 
the purpose of implementing these principles 
and improving your bank’s impacts. this should 
include a high-level overview of how your bank 
has identified relevant stakeholders and what 
issues were addressed/results achieved.
jyske bank participates in many committees and 
working groups at finance denmark, including the 
working group for sustainable finance and the co2 
working group. the focus of the working group 
for sustainable finance is on the overall agenda. in 
2020, the focus of the co2 working group was on 
preparing the framework co2 model.
we have also taken the initiative to form a prb 
group under the auspices of fida, where we have 
entered into a dialogue with “our goals” (a project 
run by statistics denmark and deloitte), which aims 
to “translate” the sdgs into a danish context.
in addition to committees and working groups in 
the danish sector, jyske bank participates in eba 
working groups and a number of industry-specific 
initiatives and networks. for example, the agricul-
tural advisory board.
sustainability report 2020, 
role in society p. 6-7
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 42 of 44
principle 5: governance & culture
we will implement our commitment to these principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking
5.1 describe the relevant governance structures, 
policies and procedures your bank has in place/
is planning to put in place to manage significant 
positive and negative (potential) impacts and 
support effective implementation of the princi-
ples.
jyske bank’s supervisory board has apporved 
a policy for sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility.
the supervisory board has the overall
responsibility for the strategy for sustainability and 
corporate social responsibility. 
the executive board has day-to-day responsibility 
across the group and ensures implementation and 
compliance with the policy.in practice, the monitor-
ing of this responsibility has been delegated to the 
sustainability committee.
sustainability is an integral part of the operations 
and business development in all parts of the group, 
and all units in the organisation contribute to im-
plementing the strategy and compliance with jyske 
bank’s sustainability objectives. 
the ir and sustainability department is
responsible for driving and coordinating the
overall agenda.
sustainable lending areas are dealt with by the 
green finance framework committee.
sustainability report 2020,
governance  p. 10
policy on sustainability and 
corporate social responsi-
bility, p. 6
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/gov-
ernance/code-of-conduct
green finance framework 
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/sus-
tainability
5.2 describe the initiatives and measures your 
bank has implemented or is planning to 
implement to foster a culture of responsible 
banking among its employees. this should 
include a high-level overview of capacity 
building, inclusion in remuneration structures 
and performance management and leadership 
communication, amongst others. 
sustainability was one of five themes in the “christ-
mas letter” from jyske bank’s ceo, anders dam. in 
internal communication, we are focusing on putting 
jyske bank’s approach to sustainability into the 
context of prb and sustainability as expressed in 
the 17 sustainable development goals and building 
up a knowledge of these. it is also important for us 
that the individual business initiatives are perceived 
as part of our overall efforts. the latter takes place 
through co-ordination with the implementation 
department and development organisation.
we do not have performance-related pay at jyske 
bank, nor with regard to sustainability/esg.
sustainability report 2020, 
healthy corporate culture 
p. 27-28
remuneration policy 
www.investor.jyskebank.
com/investorrelations/gov-
ernance/code-of-conduct
5.3 governance structure for implementation of 
the principles 
show that your bank has a governance struc-
ture in place for the implementation of the prb, 
including:   
a) target-setting and actions to achieve targets 
set  
b) remedial action in the event of targets or 
milestones not being achieved or unexpected 
negative impacts being detected.
please refer to the description of our governance 
structure under point 5.1. above.
sustainability report 2020,
governance p. 10 
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding governance structure for implementation of the 
principles.
we have established a sustainability management and organisation to ensure the implementation of prb. this also includes the setting of 
targets and following up on these. this implementation is managed by the investor relations and sustainability department in cooperation with 
sustainablity leads in the individual business unit within the group. the sustainability committee’s quarterly meetings serve as a focal point for 
the ongoing follow-up work and assessment of the level of ambition and principles for the group’s sustainability efforts. the supervisory board 
receives quarterly reports.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report  2020  •   page 43 of 44
principle 6: transparency & accountability
we will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these principles and be transparent about and accountable 
for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.
6.1 progress on implementing the principles for 
responsible banking  
 
show that your bank has progressed on im-
plementing the six principles over the last 12 
months (up to 18 months in your first reporting 
after becoming a signatory) in addition to the 
setting and implementation of targets in mini-
mum two areas (see 2.1-2.4). 
 
show that your bank has considered existing 
and emerging international/regional good prac-
tices relevant for the implementation of the six 
principles for responsible banking. based on 
this, it has defined priorities and ambitions to 
align with good practice. 
 
show that your bank has implemented/is work-
ing on implementing changes in existing prac-
tices to reflect and be in line with existing and 
emerging international/regional good practices 
and has made progress on its implementation 
of these principles. 
we are in the process of updating our policy for 
responsible procurement and the policy for respon-
sible investments will also be updated.
in 2021, we will formulate a climate, environment 
and energy policy as an overall framework for our 
work on sustainable banking operations.
this will help to support us in leading the way with 
regard to sustainability in our own activities and – in 
addition to our focus on climate in a sustainable 
business – we want to contribute to the overall 
climate and environmental agenda by motivat-
ing employees and partners in order to increase 
awareness of the problem and help to reduce co2 
emissions.
in connection with setting and updating targets, 
including alignment with the paris climate agree-
ment, we are exploring the possibilities of using 
science based targets.
in 2021, the focus will be on climate risks, including 
stress tests. in connection with this, we will consider 
whether it will be relevant to accede to international 
frameworks and/or principles.
sustainability report 2020,  
strategy p. 8
sustainble banking opera-
tion p. 25
simplifies sustainable 
investment p. 14-17
please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding progress on implementing the principles  
for responsible banking.
since signing the prb in september 2019, jyske bank has applied the principles as an overall framework for its work on integrating sustainability 
into both its own and customer-oriented activities such as: strategy, governance structure, organisation, impact analysis, the introduction of 
sustainable products/solutions, the purchase of a wind turbine to offset co2 emissions from electricity consumption and internal commu-
nication. in 2021, we will focus on the next step towards sustainable banking operations– offsetting co2 emissions from electricity, heating 
and company cars, updating our sustainable business targets, expanding our scope of business within both investing and lending activities in 
sustainability-promoting areas, and conducting an impact analysis based on 2020 data.
policies, principles and key figures  •  sustainability report 2020  •  page 44 of 44
would you like to know more
questions and comments
we appreciate questions and comments and they can be directed to ir@jyskebank.dk
or to 
jyske bank
 ir and sustainability
vestergade 8-16
dk-8600 silkeborg
read more about us at
website
jyskebank.dk/nyheder
jyskebank.dk/bæredygtighed
investor.jyskebank.com/sustainability
social media
follow us on social media here
 
 
linkedin
 
dk.linkedin.com/company/jyske-bank
 
facebook
 
@havkatten
 
instagram
 
@jyskebank
 
twitter
 
twitter.com/jyskebank
this report covers the following companies within the jyske bank group
section title  •  report on sustainability 2020  •  page 45 of 40
jyske bank
vestergade 8-16
8600 silkeborg, denmark
cvr no. 17 61 66 17
tel. +45 89 89 89 89
www.jyskebank.dk
