sustainability 
report 2020
rethink tomorrow
sustainability report
2
sustainability report  
novozymes a/s
3 
ceo statement
4 
 novozymes and the ungc
 
• progress on the ten principles
7 
sustainability governance
8  
collective action
contents
3
sustainability report      ceo statement
novozymes a/s
keeping up momentum
every day in 2020, novozymes’ biological solutions 
and operations delivered towards our purpose, 
contributed to achieving the sdgs and lived up to 
the ten principles of the un global compact for 
responsible business. 
t
he year 2020, and covid-19 in particular, 
has served as a wake-up call to society. it 
has shown us how vital it is that we understand 
and respect the larger ecosystems we are part 
of, how our interaction with nature may affect 
us all and the need to work together to solve 
global challenges.
at novozymes, we apply innovation through 
science to develop solutions that address 
important societal needs.  sustainability is in 
our dna, it drives everything we do: whether 
it be the way we work, how we run our 
operations, bring our solutions and products to 
our customers or engage with the communities 
we are a part of. it is deeply embedded in 
our purpose “together, we find the biological 
answers for better lives in a growing world, let´s 
rethink tomorrow” and our strategy “better 
business with biology”. by living our purpose 
and delivering on our strategy, we generate 
value for our customers, shareholders and 
society at large, short term as well as long 
term.
our progress
in 2020, we stayed on course towards our 2030 
sustainability goals and targets. for example, 
we increased the share of renewables in our 
sourcing of electricity to 69% and reduced 
absolute emissions from our operations by 
46%. we are on track to meet our science-
based commitments to halve co2 emissions 
from our own operations by 2030. this 
year, novozymes endorsed the ceo water 
mandate and committed to advancing water 
stewardship. we partnered with wwf to 
develop context-based water management 
plans for our chinese sites. we managed 
to keep our operations running during the 
pandemic, whilst safeguarding the health 
and safety of our employees. progress on our 
diversity and employee engagement targets 
has also been satisfactory.  
our biggest positive contribution to society 
and the sdgs comes from our science-based 
biological solutions. examples are the 49 
million tons of co2 emissions avoided through 
ceo statement
ester baiget ceo
our low-carbon fuels for the transport sector 
and the 3.98 billion people we reached with 
laundry solutions based more on biology and 
less on chemicals. in 2020, we continued 
to innovate new solutions delivering to the 
sdgs. we launched taegro® together with 
syngenta, to provide farmers with a chemical-
free fungicide to protect fruits and vegetables 
from disease, thereby improving food 
production with less environmental impact. 
another example is protana® prime which 
improves the flavor profile of plant proteins 
and thereby enables a switch to more plant-
based diets, which offers a big potential for 
helping to reduce agricultural land use and co2 
emissions.
partnering for the sdgs 
at novozymes, sustainability has been a 
priority for decades and we take pride in 
being a partner in helping to achieve the 
sdgs. we are committed to doing our part 
and to collaborate with public and private 
sector partners, to help build the sustainable 
future we all want. to leverage the power of 
collaboration and partnerships, to promote 
and accelerate innovation for the sdgs, 
we have co-founded and are engaged in 
helloscience, an open innovation platform 
helping to combine applied research, social, 
environmental and commercial innovation. 
supporting our communities 
we are part of the local community, wherever 
we are located. it is our responsibility to 
engage, support and inspire local communities 
to pursue their own sustainability initiatives. in 
2019, we created ‘inspire the world’ as a new 
target to encourage and enable employees 
to use 1% of their time on local outreach 
initiatives. responding to local challenges in 
the face of covid-19, many zymers stepped 
up - investing their resources, time, and 
creativity in helping communities respond 
to the consequences of the pandemic. as 
an organization, we used our core business 
competences and helped set up and run 
large-scale production of ethanol to be used 
for hand sanitization. we also prioritized 
keeping all our production plants running in 
order to secure a supply of food and cleaning 
ingredients; and we provided enzymes for 
covid-19 testing kits.
looking ahead
although i hope 2021 will be better than 2020, 
i also know that it will be challenging. there 
has never been a greater need for innovation 
and collective action to make our societies 
more resilient to the pandemic, climate change 
and many other sustainability challenges. we 
will continue to bring the benefits of biology 
through our solutions and progress on our 
2030 ambitions on climate, water, production 
and consumption. by doing so, we will continue 
to contribute towards the sdgs and make 
progress on the ten principles of the un global 
compact. our commitment to enable better 
lives in a growing world in partnership with our 
customers remains strong!
4
sustainability report      novozymes and the ungc
novozymes a/s
novozymes 
and the 
ungc
novozymes has engaged 
with the un global compact 
(ungc) since 2001 and has 
been a lead member since 
2011. we actively support the 
ungc’s global and regional 
work on the sdgs and climate 
change and participate in 
the ungc’s local networks in 
denmark, brazil, usa, china 
and india. 
w
e also actively participate in ungc 
facilitated peer network meetings to 
share learnings on key sustainability issues 
- for example, in sustainability reporting, 
covering topics such as the recommendations 
of the task force for climate related 
disclosures (tcfd), sdg reporting and the eu 
taxonomy. 
2020 highlights  
novozymes signed the ungc statement in support 
of the un and multilateral institutions and provided 
support for the ungc lead expert group as part of 
the ungc strategic review process.  
novozymes president and ceo ester baiget was 
invited to ring the bell for gender equality together 
with ungc denmark, nasdaq copenhagen, un 
women and other leaders. 
in brazil, we shared our experiences from our human 
rights impact assessment work with other companies 
in the ungc brazil network in a workshop conducted 
by the regional human rights platform.
in china, we continue to be recognized as pioneers for 
climate change action and ecology conservation and 
for the third time, we were awarded ‘best practice for 
companies in achieving sdgs’.
novozymes and the ungc
key engagements
business ambition for 1.5°c 
— our only future 
ceo water mandate 
women’s empowerment principles 
caring for climate 
ungc action platforms
business ambition for climate and health
reporting on the sdgs
5
sustainability report      novozymes and the ungc
novozymes a/s
theme
human rights  
and labor 
principle 1: 
businesses should support 
and respect the protection of 
internationally proclaimed human 
rights; and
principle 2: 
make sure that they are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.
principle 3: 
businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the 
effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining;
principle 4: 
the elimination of all forms of forced 
and compulsory labor
principle 5: 
the effective abolition of  
child labor; and
principle 6: 
the elimination of discrimination 
in respect of employment and 
occupation.
novozymes respects human rights as defined by the un guiding principles on business and human rights and has 
implemented them in our operational policies and procedures. we respect the international bill of human rights, the 
international labor organization’s declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, and, since 2001, we have 
been active with the ungc. 
novozymes is committed to ensuring equal opportunities and avoiding discrimination based on race, religion, gender
or age in our global organization. we have a policy for diversity and equal opportunities, which covers the entire 
workforce. 
novozymes is committed to providing a work environment where all individuals can work together comfortably and 
productively, free of any kind of harassment and discrimination. we recognize and respect the right to form and join 
associations and to bargain collectively. our people & organization function works together with local leaderships to 
facilitate the fulfillment of these fundamental rights in countries with limited labor legislation.
novozymes engages in forums to learn about and promote gender equality. we are also a signatory to the women's 
empowerment principles.  one of novozymes’ primary priorities on the diversity agenda has been to increase the 
number of women in senior management.
novozymes believes that respectful, professional conduct furthers novozymes’ mission and is fundamental to a good
workplace. novozymes is committed to ensuring the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking in its business 
and supply chain. we publish our annual statement under the uk modern slavery act on our website. we conduct 
regionally focused human rights impact assessments to identify and assess human rights risks and impacts in our 
business and supplier base. as human rights risks vary from region to region, this approach enables us to gain a more 
comprehensive understanding of human rights risks, our positioning and the associated gaps within the respective 
regions.
 
 
 see notes 8.1 and 8.6 in  
‘accounts and performance’
progress on the ten principles
6
sustainability report      novozymes and the ungc
novozymes a/s
theme
environment
principle 7: 
businesses should support 
a precautionary approach to 
environmental challenges  
principle 8:
undertake initiatives to  
promote greater environmental 
responsibility; and
principle 9:
encourage the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly 
technologies.
novozymes’ approach to environmental management is anchored in our sustainability policy.  we are guided by the 
un sustainable development goals (sdgs) and we have carefully considered how we can make a positive and tangible 
impact. we have made commitments (sbti verified) to help limit global warming increase to 1.5°c (climate), ensure clean 
and efficient use of water (water) and produce more and better products with less impact (production & consumption).
we are committed to complying with all environmental regulations at all our sites and to maintaining high standards 
of environmental management on various aspects, including pollution prevention, resource conservation and waste 
reduction. 
our research and business are based on bio-innovation.  climate action is an integral part of our business strategy and 
our solutions enable our customers and end users to reduce co2 emissions through the application of our solutions. 
novozymes’ existing solutions specifically in textile and laundry enable our customers to reduce water consumption 
compared with conventional methods and improve wastewater quality by replacing chemicals.  we endorse, acknowledge 
and respect the principles of the united nations convention on biological diversity and the complementary nagoya 
protocol on access and benefits sharing. internal procedures in our management system ensure that we live up to 
our commitments. we adhere to responsible sourcing as defined by our responsible purchasing standards (rps) and 
managed through our supplier performance management (spm) process and sedex sustainability platform. 
 
 see notes 7.1 to 7.7 and 8.6 in  
‘accounts and performance’
 
anti-corruption
principle 10: 
businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including 
extortion and bribery
novozymes is committed to conducting business in a responsible, ethical, and transparent manner and to meeting
stakeholders’ expectations of high business integrity standards across our operations. we have adopted seven business 
integrity principles that lay the ground rules for engaging with third parties and apply to all our employees across the 
world. the business integrity principles are inspired by and adhere to the un convention against corruption. they 
underline novozymes’ zero tolerance approach to bribery and set clear rules for gifts and donations. they act as 
novozymes’ code of conduct in business integrity matters and form the basis of our efforts to eliminate all forms of 
corruption.
 
 see notes 8.3 and 8.6 in  
‘accounts and performance’
 
7
sustainability report      sustainability governance 
novozymes a/s
sustainability 
governance 
s
ustainability forms an integral part 
of novozymes’ purpose and strategic 
direction and is governed by the board of 
directors and the executive leadership team. 
the board is responsible for overseeing 
financial and environmental, social and 
governance (esg) performance as part of 
the executive leadership team’s day-to-day 
running of the company. 
in 2020, novozymes established a corporate 
sustainability committee in the new 
organizational set-up reporting directly to 
the executive leadership team (exlt).  this 
committee is responsible for the integration 
of sustainability into novozymes’ business 
strategies and innovation pipeline to deliver 
solutions that meet the needs of society 
and drive sales growth. it is also responsible 
for setting novozymes’ strategic direction, 
ambitious sustainability targets, and securing 
a strong internal foundation of responsible 
business practices. 
the committee consists of members from 
senior leadership representing various 
functions and is chaired by the executive vice 
president of people, sustainability & brand 
function. 
sustainability drives the way we do business and we 
have always taken the triple bottom line approach 
to generate economic, environmental and social 
value. we manage our performance on material esg 
issues through relevant targets and kpis. achieving 
our 2022 non-financial targets will put us on the 
path to accomplish our 2030 commitments. our 
commitments and targets are focused on climate, 
water, production & consumption and employees 
and guided by the sdgs.
2020 highlights
novozymes sourced 69% of our global electricity 
consumption from renewable sources, making 
progress towards our 2030 commitment. co2 
emissions (scope 1+2 only) from our operations 
decreased by 29% to 234,000 tons from 330,000 tons 
in 2019.
we developed contextual water management 
programs for two of our sites in china and have 
identified water targets that will help us address 
water challenges in and around these sites. within 
our operations, we achieved water savings of 45,000 
m3 for the year through water reduction and re-use 
projects. 
 97% of our biomass volume was handled in a 
circular set-up where nutrients, such as nitrogen and 
phosphorus, are used in agriculture and developed 
zero waste programs for three of our major sites 
located in denmark.
 for our nurture diversity target, we achieved 83 on 
our diversity index, which is based on gender and 
nationality. we met our target to drive down the three-
year rolling average of lost-time injury frequency rate 
to 1.5.
 our business integrity training was completed by 
99% of our employees in scope and focused on risks 
relating to conflicts of interest.
 
 
 for more information on measurement of outcomes, 
refer to 'targets' and 'accounts and performance'.
sustainability drives the way we do business
8
sustainability report      collective action
novozymes a/s
collective action
o
ur stakeholders are essential partners in 
delivering on our purpose and the sdgs. 
our most significant contributions to society 
are driven through collaboration with our 
customers, consumers, governments, suppliers, 
academia and others to learn, develop and 
deliver solutions to the most pressing needs 
of society. we maintain a transparent and 
ongoing dialogue with our investors on both 
financial and esg performance. this is crucial 
to ensuring strong long-term relationships and 
improving our performance on material issues.
novozymes engages with governments in all 
our regions of operation, primarily through 
policy advocacy. our engagement with industry 
or trade associations further helps us in our 
policy advocacy efforts. novozymes presents 
its positions to policymakers and other 
interested parties in accordance with national 
and international laws. our public affairs 
employees in europe, united states, india 
at novozymes, we recognize the importance of 
stakeholder engagement and partnerships to drive 
transformational change and have a significant 
impact on society. 
and china primarily engage with governments 
through advocacy and consultation forums. 
they are registered in dedicated lobbyist 
registers, as legally required (e.g.: the 
transparency register in brussels). novozymes 
does not support political parties or politicians. 
we do not disclose other contributions, except 
where required by law. in 2020, in the us, 
novozymes spent dkk 3.3 million on policy 
advocacy.
“our engagement with industry 
or trade associations further 
helps us in our policy advocacy 
efforts. novozymes presents 
its positions to policymakers 
and other interested parties in 
accordance with national and 
international laws.”
9
sustainability report      collective action
novozymes a/s
2020 highlights
 novozymes established strong internal and external engagement to secure 
success towards our long-term water strategy. we became a proud signatory 
to the ceo water mandate and established a partnership with the world-
wide fund for nature (wwf). wwf will help us to develop contextual 
water programs for our key sites that will ensure our efforts are focused on 
addressing the priority operational and basin water challenges. novozymes 
has also joined the science based targets network’s (sbtn) freshwater 
hub working group, which drives the development of methodology for 
science-based targets for water.
our products help food producers meet the growing consumer demand 
for high-quality, healthy and sustainable foods. in 2020, we partnered with 
firmenich to deliver healthier yogurt solutions with 50% less sugar through 
the use of our enzyme saphera®.
we began to implement our scope 3 target to reduce our absolute co2 
emissions from purchased goods and services. we are exploring multiple 
levers to achieve our target such as substitution to less co2 intensive 
materials and engaging with our suppliers to drive emission reductions.
our ‘inspire’ target is about helping our communities respond to local 
challenges. in 2020, the biggest crisis we all faced was the covid-19 
pandemic. our employees in all regions stepped up by contributing their 
resources, time, and creativity to help their communities respond to the 
pandemic and other pressing local issues.
 
 
 see ‘targets’ and ‘community engagement’  
for further information.
novozymes continued to drive collaborative innovation for the sdgs via 
its helloscience platform. leveraging its digital capabilities,  a covid-19 
inspired challenge was launched in denmark, among other activities, 
focusing on the future of sustainable cleaning with nilfisk, local authorities, 
business associations and start-ups. elsewhere, partnerships were 
established to support social innovation in the arctic region with sustainia 
and to drive sustainable business innovation with nordin in india. high 
impact projects within the helloscience ecosystem like solarsack have also 
continued forward, including providing safe drinking water for refugees in 
uganda.    
novozymes maintained its active involvement throughout the year with 
the international chamber of commerce (icc), notably through its work 
on climate, sustainability and environmental issues and its commissions, 
with icc taking a key role in terms of business responses to covid-19. in 
september 2020, novozymes’ president and ceo ester baiget spoke at the 
sdg business forum as part of this year’s virtual un general assembly, co-
organized by icc, ungc and un desa (economic and social affairs) on the 
role of sustainable business leadership, purpose and innovation.
novozymes also maintained its support for the work of both the united 
states council for international business (uscib) and the uscib 
foundation in 2020, with novozymes’ president and ceo ester baiget being 
elected to the board of trustees. uscib’s work across biodiversity, climate, 
circular economy and its ongoing support for inclusive multilateralism 
and the role of the u.s. in key international negotiations and processes 
such as the unfccc paris agreement were at the center of novozymes’ 
engagements with the organization. 
collective action
10
sustainability report      collective action
novozymes a/s
we align our actions with our advocacy for 
a low carbon future. novozymes actively 
engages in global discussions, partnerships 
and advocacy for robust policy framework 
to decarbonize the global economy with key 
stakeholders. 
we engage directly with key stakeholders 
in government, industry and organizations 
around the world to maintain and strengthen 
political momentum and we offer knowledge 
and insights to broaden the understanding 
of industrial biotech and the industry’s 
contribution to the green transformation and 
the paris agreement. 
our  advocacy for climate  action
in the eu, through its representation in 
various industry organizations such as 
europabio, epure, ebic, novozymes 
supports the eu green deal, which 
articulates a roadmap for how europe 
will live up to its ambitious climate 
commitments and make its economy 
circular, biobased and sustainable.
in china, novozymes supports the 
government’s ambition of becoming 
carbon neutral by 2060 and its overall 
objective of the clean energy strategy 
in the 14th national five-year plan. 
novozymes also advocates for more policy 
support and subsidies for the advanced 
bioethanol sector due to its contribution to 
china’s circular economy.
in the us, novozymes has supported key 
climate legislation, such as the renewable 
fuel standard which provides reduced 
ghg-emissions renewable fuels market 
access via minimum annual blending 
volume requirements and the growing 
climate solutions act which would enable 
farmers and foresters to participate in 
carbon credit markets.
in brazil, novozymes was a founding 
member of the association of industrial 
biotechnology (abbi), which played a 
key role in establishing the renovabio 
program, which seeks to reduce the 
emissions intensity of the brazilian 
transport sector in line with its 
commitment to the paris agreement.
in denmark, novozymes is part of 
the ‘climate partnership for life 
science & biotech’ which aims to give 
recommendations on how each industrial 
sector can contribute to reducing 
ghg emissions and reach the danish 
government’s target of reducing absolute 
ghg emissions by 70% by 2030, compared 
to 1990.
 in india, novozymes has, through the 
confederation of indian industry (cii), 
extensively engaged with government 
and industry stakeholders in shaping 
the national policy on biofuels which 
is aimed at achieving energy security, 
reducing carbon emissions and reducing 
dependence on fuel imports. further, 
novozymes supports the indian 
government's efforts on climate action and 
the green transition and will proactively 
participate in the initiatives through the 
danish embassy in the country.
 
 this is novozymes in  
‘the big picture’
 
 working with sdgs in  
‘the big picture’
 
 targets in  
‘our business’
 
 notes in  
‘accounts and performance’
 
 novozymes’ policies and position 
statements at novozymes.com
 
 materiality and value chain 
assessment at novozymes.com 
 
 partnerships and collective  
action at novozymes.com
 
 awards and recognitions  
and novozymes.com
for further  
information refer to:
© novozymes a/s, krogshoejvej 36
2880 bagsvaerd, denmark
