1
chapter title
sustainability report 2020
2
contents
4  
a message from our ceo
5  
about pandora
7  
global events and trends
8   pandora’s response to  
the pandemic 
10  2020 highlights
12   sustainability strategy  
and materiality
43  sustainability governance
45  stakeholder engagement
47   un sustainable  
development goals
48   tcfd reporting
49  about this report
50  sustainability data
55   independent auditor’s limited 
assurance report
32  sourcing the responsible way 
35   minimising impacts in crafting 
and distribution
39   upholding sustainability in 
retail and sales 
16  low-carbon business
21  circular innovation
24 inclusive and fair culture
3
overview
30
sustainability  
from source  
to sale
40 business ethics
42
annex
13
our strategic  
priorities
3
chapter title
01
overview
4
overview
alexander lacik
president & ceo
becoming low-carbon, 
circular, inclusive 
and fair
a message from our ceo
2020 was a year of both isolation and connection. as societies shut 
down, we missed out on social interaction, but the global population 
has probably never been more connected by common circumstance. 
we all faced the pandemic and its consequences. 
at pandora, we had to cancel or postpone many of our 
commercial plans as focus shifted to protecting customers 
and employees. we implemented rigorous cleaning routines 
and other precautions in our stores and warehouses, and we 
launched digital innovations such as virtual try-on and remote  
assistants – all of which helped ensure a safe shopping 
experience. we maintained salaries for all our 11,600 store 
colleagues throughout lockdowns.
2020 also united us around sustainability discussions. the urgent 
need for decarbonisation continued, and we witnessed wide-
spread global movements to promote race and gender equality. 
while the pandemic and our business turnaround have 
demanded most of our attention, sustainability remains at 
the top of pandora’s agenda. we continued to deepen our 
we also made progress on our third strategic priority – being 
an inclusive and fair business. inclusivity and diversity are  
essential values at pandora, and we conducted a company-wide 
survey to gauge employees’ views on what is going well and 
where we need to improve. together with consumer data, the 
survey results will inform a new inclusion and diversity strategy, 
to be rolled out in 2021. we also extended our collaboration 
with unicef after having raised usd 3.4 million for vulnerable 
children in the first year of the partnership. some of the funds 
were directed to covid-19 relief.
pandora will continue to lead on important sustainability  
issues. we believe it is the right thing to do, and we can see 
that many key stakeholders agree. employees are proud 
to work for companies that take sustainability seriously, 
investors increasingly consider environmental, social and 
governance (esg) performance alongside traditional financial 
metrics, and consumers prefer brands with strong social and 
environmental profiles.
in 2021, we are launching our new growth strategy, and  
sustainability will be an important foundational element. 
we are also introducing new company values that reflect our 
strong belief in responsible business practices. combined, 
the new strategy and values set direction for our actions and 
behaviours as pandora continue to fulfil its purpose of “giving 
a voice to people's loves”.
as we look back upon an extremely challenging year, i wish 
to express my sincere gratitude to all our employees. thanks 
to your commitment and innovation pandora advanced in 
2020, not just as a business but also as a catalyst for more 
sustainable development.
commitment to the principles of the un global compact, and 
we made great progress on our three strategic priorities: be-
coming a low-carbon, circular, and inclusive and fair business.
pandora is on course to become a carbon-neutral company by 
2025. our crafting facilities in thailand account for half of our 
global energy consumption, and in 2020 we switched to 100% 
renewable energy, which was sourced from local solar projects. 
we also completed our first greenhouse gas profile for our 
full value chain, and in 2021 we will announce a goal for these 
efforts in line with the science based targets initiative.   
 
to become a circular business, our goal is to use only materials 
that are renewable, recycled or otherwise sustainable. we took 
a significant step by committing to use 100% recycled silver 
and gold in our jewellery by 2025, and we are now engaging with 
our suppliers to develop a roadmap. 
5
overview
about pandora
pandora is the number one jewellery brand in the 
world by volume. known by more consumers and 
crafting more jewellery than any other brand, we  
provide affordable luxury to customers in more than 
100 countries through more than 7,000 points of 
sale. pandora’s largest markets are the us, italy,  
the uk and china.
in 2020, pandora sold more than 85 million pieces of jewellery.
headquartered in copenhagen, denmark, pandora employs 26,000 
people worldwide and crafts its jewellery at two leed-certified  
facilities in thailand. pandora is certified to the responsible  
jewellery council code of practices, the leading supply chain  
initiative in the jewellery supply chain. 
pandora is listed on the nasdaq copenhagen stock exchange  
and generated sales of dkk 19.0 billion in 2020.
6
overview





sustainability in our value chain
sustainability is central to how we  
approach each segment of the value chain. 
we own and operate the vast majority of 
our value chain, from design, sourcing and 
crafting through to the marketing and sale 
of our jewellery. this gives us increased 
influence and leverage to embed  
sustainability standards across the  
business.
building on consumer 
insights and trend research, 
we create new innovative 
product designs at af-
fordable prices. we choose 
sustainable materials where 
possible. for example, 
pandora uses predominantly 
man-made stones, as they 
have a significantly lower 
environmental impact than 
mined stones.
our suppliers must adhere  
to high social, environmental,  
and business ethics standards,  
as outlined in the pandora 
supplier code of conduct. 
we are also embedding 
circularity considerations into 
our sourcing decisions, as we 
are committed to using only 
recycled silver and gold in our 
products by 2025.
every piece of jewellery 
is hand-finished, and we 
provide safe and healthy 
working conditions for more 
than 11,000 craftspeople 
at our two modern crafting 
facilities in thailand. we 
source 100% renewable 
energy for the facilities and 
we recycle more than 90% 
of all crafting waste.
our jewellery is available in 
more than 100 countries. 
we continuously optimise 
our distribution network 
and work to deliver our 
products in environmentally 
conscious packaging, for 
example by reducing box 
sizes to help us to lower our 
transportation footprint.
we market our products 
responsibly and protect the 
privacy of our customers 
and employees.
01
02
03
04
05
design
sourcing
crafting 
distribution
marketing  
and sales
7
overview
global events 
and trends
climate change
according to a new nasa study, 2020 tied with 2016 was the 
hottest year ever on record, with the ongoing climate crisis 
having left a lasting mark on the year with rising temperatures, 
destructive hurricanes and unprecedented wildfires. it was 
also a year in which renewable energy costs continued to fall 
rapidly, paving the way for governments and companies  
to scale more sustainable ways of powering societies and 
business operations. pandora seized this moment to set 
ambitious targets for increasing its use of renewable energy, 
reducing its carbon impact, and ultimately mitigating climate 
change impacts.
race and gender equality
in 2020, we witnessed a global watershed moment around 
inclusion and diversity topics, notably through the black lives 
matter movement and continued #metoo discussions. these 
discussions are important for all aspects of society, including 
businesses like pandora. inclusion and diversity are essential 
values in our company, and in 2020 we took steps to under-
stand employee viewpoints for the first time so that they will 
be more profoundly reflected in the everyday practices and 
behaviours at pandora.
esg investing 
sustainability moved even further into the mainstream  
investing arena in 2020. blackrock made clear that companies  
with high sustainability-related risk will be deprioritised  
and to urge companies to adopt net zero climate targets.  
in addition, the task force on climate-related financial  
disclosures (tcfd) recommendations have pushed companies  
to enhance climate risk disclosure and to increase their  
climate resilience. at pandora, we finalised our scope 3 
greenhouse gas accounting in 2020, taking the company one 
step closer to setting its science-based target. our report 
has also been informed by a number of global esg reporting 
frameworks. we have prepared this report in accordance with 
the gri standards: core option. in addition, we have provided  
an overview of alignment with sustainability accounting 
standards board (sasb) within apparel, accessories &  
footwear and tcfd guidance.
in 2020, we  
took steps to 
understand  
employee  
viewpoints on 
inclusion and  
diversity.
read more about our 
inclusive and fair culture 
on page 24. 
8
overview
pandora’s response 
to the pandemic
in 2020, we went to great lengths to ensure that shopping 
remained a safe experience for all of our customers. in our 
stores, we have implemented rigorous cleaning routines and 
adopted precautionary guidelines for trying on jewellery and 
maintaining social distancing.  
the pandemic also triggered digital innovation and creativity 
in the retail space. from virtual queuing, in-store appoint-
ment booking, click and collect, find in store, endless aisle, 
and faster checkout to virtual try-on and remote shopping 
assistants, pandora was able to introduce customer-centric 
digital solutions designed with safety as a top priority.
2020 was a very challenging year, with  
covid-19 impacting the way that all of us 
lead our daily lives. the pandemic threatened 
the health of the global population, and the 
effects on economies and many businesses 
were profound. at pandora, the health, safety  
and livelihoods of those touched by our  
business were and continue to be a priority 
when navigating the challenges posed by the  
pandemic.
 customers 
9
overview
pandora supported the community in various ways  
during 2020:     
 • unicef donation – in addition to our long-term partnership 
with unicef, we donated usd 1 million to their covid-19 
response, which aims to prevent the pandemic from becom-
ing a lasting crisis for the world’s most vulnerable children.  
 • raising funds in the uk, the us and china – in the uk,  
pandora partnered with nhs charities together to create an 
exclusive “heroes” charm. for two months, all profits from 
sales of the charm went to its covid-19 urgent appeal.  
similarly, in the us, sales of an exclusive “nurse dangle 
charm” helped to raise funds for the american nurses  
foundation’s coronavirus response fund for nurses.  
pandora in china also contributed to the cause by donat-
ing rmb 1 million to the novel coronavirus prevention and 
control fund of wuhan charity federation.
we have worked closely with suppliers in adapting payments 
and deferring planned projects in light of covid-19. we have 
done so in close collaboration with our suppliers, balancing 
our business needs while preserving the viability of our  
suppliers’ operations.
the pandemic forced us to temporarily close most of our 
stores during the year. in order to protect the livelihoods of 
our store employees, we continued normal scheduled base 
pay during lockdowns. for online sales, we took steps to 
ensure that warehouse staff did not directly touch products, 
that deliveries were contact-free and that returns were 
quarantined for 72 hours before being processed. we took 
comparable safety precautions at our crafting facilities and 
have continued to operate without notable disruption from 
the virus outbreak.
in addition to following local government directives, we  
developed and implemented global standard operating  
procedures at our crafting facilities, stores and offices.  
these describe how pandora employees and managers 
should handle situations in the event that an employee tests 
positive, has been in close contact with an infected person, 
or shows possible covid-19 symptoms. we also developed 
online training to keep retail staff informed on best practices 
during the pandemic.  
 employees 
 suppliers 
 society 
10
10
overview
overview
19.0
dkk billion  
revenue
highlights
million pieces of  
jewellery sold
>85
top ranking in annual msci 
sustainability rating
fifth consecutive year
aaa
2020
1111
overview
of all waste at 
crafting facilities 
was recycled
90%
company-wide  
human rights assessment 
undertaken
man-made stones used 
in pandora products
renewable energy 
sourced at our  
crafting facilities
million raised by pandora  
for unicef during the first  
year of the partnership
>99%
usd 3.4
pandora  
earned “strong” 
ranking from 
human rights 
watch for our 
responsible 
sourcing  
practices 
100%
 the highest rating 
among jewellery  
companies
recycled silver 
and gold used in 
our products
~60%
12
12
overview
a
b
c
sustainability 
strategy  
and materiality
we continue to align our strategy with the united nations (un)  
sustainable development goals (see more on page 47  
 ), the 
un guiding principles on business and human rights, and the 
paris agreement. using these pillars of the global sustainability 
agenda to guide us, we regularly review sustainability issues and 
completed a materiality assessment1 to ensure that we build a 
sustainable business and meet stakeholder expectations.
guided by the global reporting initiative’s reporting (gri) 
principles, we conducted our first annual sustainability  
materiality assessment in september 2020 in order to 
ensure that we are addressing issues that are relevant to 
both our business and key stakeholders, including investors, 
we consider sustainability across our business, from how we craft our 
jewellery to the workplace we offer employees. reducing what we take 
from the planet, protecting the environment and treating all stake-
holders well is key to pandora’s business success. 
government, employees, suppliers, consumers and society  
in general. in addition, the assessment has enabled us to:
 • identify opportunities for innovation and improvement;
 • understand how sustainability and key business issues 
intersect;
 • inform future sustainability commitments and required 
resources; and
 • support our proactive stakeholder engagement.
the results of our materiality assessment show the 
following to be the 12 most material topics at  
pandora, which guide our overarching sustainability 
strategy
 ·
responsible sourcing
 ·
climate change
 ·
circular approach to business
 ·
sustainable materials
 ·
product quality and safety
 ·
employee health, safety and labour rights
 ·
inclusion and diversity
 ·
conflict minerals
 ·
responsible marketing
 ·
data security and privacy
 ·
packaging 
 ·
business ethics and compliance
the materiality assessment  
consisted of three key steps:
pandora’s material issues
developing a universe of sustainability 
issues
assessing internal and external viewpoints 
on each issue
ranking and prioritising issues
material  
topics  
guide our 
overarching  
sustainability 
strategy.
1  the global reporting initiative defines material issues as “topics that reflect an 
organisation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that sub-
stantively influence the organisation’sassessments and decisions of stakeholders.”
12
13
13
chapter title
02
our strategic  
priorities
14
14
our strategic priorities
⚘


 low-carbon  
 business 
 circular  
 innovation 
 inclusive and  
fair culture 
we adopt strategies that will minimise our carbon footprint.  
we innovate to minimise the resources that we use in our 
products and recycle manufacturing materials where possible 
to “close the loop”. and we strive to ensure that our employees 
and suppliers work in safe and fair conditions. these commit-
ments form the basis for our three strategic priorities:
pandora’s sustainability strategy  
is multifaceted and seeks to address  
the company’s material issues.
15
15
our strategic priorities
summary of our  
sustainability targets 
and progress made  
in 2020
topic
target
progress to date
status
⚘
low-carbon  
business
use 100% renewable energy at our 
crafting facilities by 2020.
achieved via the purchase of renewable energy 
certificates and onsite solar generation.
 
   achieved
be carbon neutral in our  
operations by 2025.
in 2020, we purchased renewable energy  
certificates, reducing our scope 2 market- 
based emissions of our crafting facilities by 
more than 25,000 tco2e.
   on track
set a science-based target to 
reduce carbon emissions across our 
full value chain by 2021.
completed 2019 baseline and 2020 accounting 
of scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions 
and received independent auditor's limited 
assurance.
   on track

circular  
innovation
use only recycled silver and gold in 
our jewellery by 2025.
engaged with key suppliers and developed  
roadmap.
   on track
 
inclusive and  
fair culture
develop a strategy for inclusion and 
diversity to further advance equality 
in and beyond our company.
conducted global inclusion and diversity 
assessment of company practices vis-à-vis 
employees and consumers.
   on track
we believe that these strategic priorities offer us the best  
opportunity to improve our sustainability performance 
and do the right thing, while also increasing our resilience 
and making us more attractive in the marketplace. we also 
hope that they will enable broader dialogue on what greater 
sustainability performance in the jewellery industry can and 
should look like.  
we also continue to make progress in other fundamental 
areas of responsible business operations, such as water and 
waste management, responsible sourcing, health and safety, 
customer privacy, responsible marketing and business ethics.
16
16
our strategic priorities
pandora is committed to reducing its climate 
footprint and helping to advance this devel-
opment for the jewellery industry as a whole.  
we assess our climate-related risks and report our footprint 
on an annual basis to achieve our targets and ensure our  
business is prepared for a low-carbon future. 
on our way to meeting our targets
pandora’s operations emissions are driven by electricity 
consumption. we are constantly working to implement new 
energy-saving measures across our stores, offices, crafting 
facilities and distribution centres. 
we made great progress in 2020, as we significantly reduced 
pandora’s carbon footprint by sourcing 100% renewable en-
ergy at our crafting facilities in thailand1. the crafting facilities 
account for approximately half of our global energy consump-
tion. the switch to renewable energy lowered our scope 1 and 
2 emissions by more than 25,000 tco2e since 2019, equivalent 
to taking over 5,400 cars off the road2.
we will continue to use three approaches in prioritised order:  
 
1    decrease emissions
 
2    source renewable energy
 
3    offset unavoidable emissions
pandora’s
commitments 
 

be carbon neutral in our  
operations by 2025. 
 
set a science-based target  
to reduce carbon emissions 
across our full value chain  
by 2021.
low-carbon  
business
our strategic priorities
1  sourced from 2% onsite solar and 98% renewable energy certificates
2  based on epa ghg equivalences calculator:  
https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator
17
17
our strategic priorities
45%
4%
51%
2018
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
2019
2020
1    decrease emissions
pandora’s crafting facilities in thailand are among the most 
modern and energy-efficient in the industry. in 2020, we 
improved the ventilation and air conditioning systems at our 
crafting facility in bangkok. three key renovations will save 
244,000 kwh per year.
our distribution centres have energy management systems in 
place to ensure we minimise our consumption. among other 
initiatives, we ensure that equipment is turned off when not in 
use, and we have installed motion sensors to limit consumption  
when employees are not present. we reduced energy use at 
both of our main distribution centres in asia and europe by 
3% from 2019 to 2020. in 2021, we will consider more options 
for sourcing renewable energy as part of our carbon neutral 
strategy.
at our stores, we focus on using low-carbon packaging and in-
creasing the efficiency of our lighting systems, as these are our 
main sources of energy consumption in retail. in 2021, we will 
work on integrating low-carbon options in our store design as 
part of our science based target work.
2    source renewable energy
in 2020, we sourced 100% renewable energy at our craft-
ing facilities in thailand. we produced over 1,100 mwh of 
renewable energy on-site via solar panels. this covered 2% of 
pandora’s total energy consumption at our crafting facilities. 
for the crafting facilities’ remaining energy needs, pandora 
purchased verified renewable energy certificates (recs) 
through the siam solar energy 1 project. this project oper-
ates ten solar photovoltaic (pv) power plants across central 
thailand, reducing thailand’s dependence on imported  
energy, driving economic growth, improving local infrastruc-
ture and creating jobs. 
at pandora, we aim to buy recs of the highest quality, so 
the recs we purchase in thailand are certified under the 
international rec standard and the goldpower label. pursuing 
high-quality recs ensures pandora’s renewable energy pur-
chases provide additional reductions in carbon emissions and 
deliver verified social and environmental benefits to the local 
community. we will continue to engage with local stakehold-
ers in thailand to see how pandora can further support the 
country’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
in 2021, we will continue to source 100% renewable energy for 
our crafting facilities, and we will evaluate renewable energy 
sources, such as power purchase agreements, for our stores, 
offices and distribution centres to support the ongoing devel-
opment of new renewable energy solutions.
3    offset unavoidable emissions
for all remaining unavoidable scope 1 and 2 emissions, we will 
purchase carbon offsets to become carbon neutral by 2025. 
we will only use offsets when all other options have been 
exhausted and we will ensure that they will only make up a 
marginal part of our efforts to reduce emissions. 
  crafting facilities
  pandora owned stores
   distribution centres  
and offices
energy consumption (%)
of the energy  
at our crafting  
facilities 
came from 
renewable 
energy  
sources
in 2020.
scope 1 and 2 (mtco2e)
100%
  scope 1     
  scope 2 (location-based)
2018
20,000
30,000
50,000
10,000
40,000
60,000
0
2019
2020
renewable energy consumption,  
crafting facilities (mwh)
  non-renewable energy        
   renewable energy (recs and onsite solar)
18
18
our strategic priorities
 
crafting materials  
raw materials metals 
such as gold, silver, cubic 
zirconia, and other metal 
alloys as well as produc-
tion materials like gypsum 
and enamel.
 
transportation  
transportation and  
distribution of pandora  
jewellery, including 
inbound logistics, 
outbound logistics and 
thirds-party distribution. 
 
media and marketing  
media spend across all 
channels ranging from tv 
campaigns to digital ads 
and e-mail marketing. 
 
franchises  
pandora franchises, 
wholesales, and other 
points of sale which are 
not directly owned by 
pandora. 
 
packaging and point  
of sales materials  
bags, boxes, printed ma-
terials, campaign items, 
displays and trays, and 
other types of packaging.
 
it  
outsourcing services, 
hardware, telecom data, 
and it consultants.
 
capital goods  
various machines, crafting 
equipment and furniture 
in stores.
 
other  
fuel-and energy-related 
activities, business travel, 
employee commuting, 
water supply, waste 
generated in operations, 
consultancy services, and 
facilities management.
pandora scope 3  
emissions 2020 1
21%
crafting  
materials
11%
franchises
17%
transportation
9%
packaging & point 
of sales materials
7%
it
4%
capital goods
15%
other
16%
media &  
marketing
1  see scope 3 greenhouse gas protocol categories in the annex on page 50.
19
19
our strategic priorities
one step closer to setting a science-based 
target: scope 3 emissions mapping
in 2020, we successfully mapped our scope 3 emissions for 
both 2019 and 2020. we engaged industry experts and sup-
pliers to build a detailed understanding of our footprint and 
ensure our methodology is rooted in best available science. 
pandora’s scope 3 emissions came to 245,663 tco2e in 2019 
and 242,416 tco2e in 2020. the scope 3 mapping shows that 
in 2020 83% of our total emissions occurred upstream or 
downstream in the supply chain while 17% came from our 
own operations. approximately 75% of our scope 3 footprint 
is generated by five activities: crafting materials, point-of-
sales materials, transportation, media and marketing, and 
franchises. we analyse each of these activities to identify 
opportunities for reducing emissions as a basis for finalising 
our science-based target commitment in line with the paris 
agreement. 
enhancing our climate disclosure  
and reporting
at pandora, we are committed to transparent reporting to  
enable our investors and other stakeholders to make 
informed decisions. pandora’s emissions calculations are 
subject to annual limited assurance by a third party to ensure 
they are accurate and robust. read our independent auditor's 
limited assurance report on page 55.  
  in addition, we 
provided climate disclosures to the cdp (formerly the carbon 
disclosure project) for the first time in 2020 and also joined 
over 1,700 organisations to support the task force on climate- 
related financial disclosures (tcfd) recommendations. 
read about our progress towards implementing the recom-
mendations in the tcfd reporting section on page 48.  
in 2020, we established a 
new leed-certified building 
to our crafting facility in 
bangkok. the building was 
built using low impact, often 
recycled, materials and the 
majority of the on-site con-
struction waste was either 
reused or recycled. almost 
60% of the materials were 
sourced from within 500 
miles of the project site.  
today the building houses 
our various office functions.
in scope 3  
emissions in 2020
242,416 tco2e
tcfd and cdp 
reporting
in 2020, we expanded 
collaborations and 
partnerships for even 
higher commitments 
to transparent climate 
reporting. 
see more on 
page 48.  

20
20
our strategic priorities
story
would you like
a bag?
many customers do not require a bag when they purchase 
jewellery, so in 2020 pandora tested how customers in the 
uk and the us reacted when asked:  “do you want to contrib-
ute to our sustainability goal by saying no to a bag today?”.
the test showed that 32% of customers say “no” to a bag 
when asked, and 95% had a positive or neutral reaction to 
being asked. 
“our customers are happy that pandora is  
taking big steps to become a more sustainable  
company, and they appreciate being asked 
whether they require a bag. 
we use more than 18 million bags per year in our stores, so 
if around one-third of customers say no, this represents 
significant carbon savings,” says hilary new, vp global retail 
excellence.
based on these encouraging results, the initiative has now 
been introduced at pandora owned stores in key markets.  
it is expected to reduce pandora’s carbon footprint by more 
than 200,000 kgco2e per year. 
of customers  
say “no” to a bag 
when offered one
32%
21
21
our strategic priorities
this commitment is in line with our vision to adopt a circular ap-
proach to how we design, craft, source, and offer our products.  
we are conscious that jewellery must be provided in a way 
that supports a better balance when it comes to the use of 
natural materials, waste, greenhouse gases and pollutants. 
our goal is to use only materials that are renewable, recy-
cled or otherwise sustainable1. at pandora, we are working to 
identify innovative solutions, assess their feasibility and build 
circularity into every stage of our value chain — from how we 
manage waste at our crafting facilities to the packaging we use 
in our stores.
towards recycled silver and gold
silver and gold are the most used metals in our jewellery  
and therefore the most impactful place to start our journey 
towards circularity. in 2020, we took a significant step by  
committing to use only recycled silver and gold in our  
products by 2025. 
 
in 2020, around 60%2 of our gold and silver was recycled, 
which is consistent with our 2019 number. increased trans-
parency and engagement with our suppliers during the past 
year have helped us to better understand our recycled metals 
pandora strives to ensure that raw materials used in both the crafting of 
its jewellery and in the development of point-of-sales materials and other 
in-store fixtures have the lowest impact possible on the environment, 
people and communities. 
circular  
innovation
our strategic priorities
recycled silver 
and gold used in 
our products
~60%
pandora’s
commitment 

use only recycled  
silver and gold in our  
jewellery by 2025. 
22
22
our strategic priorities
supply chain, resulting in a revised 2019 recycling percentage 
of around 60%, down from around 70%. 
a complete shift to recycled silver and gold will reduce co2 
emissions, water usage and other environmental and social  
impacts, as metals recycling requires fewer resources than  
mining new metals and reduces our dependence on hazardous  
mining. by making this shift, pandora can save 37,000 tco2e 
a year. this equates to more than the annual electricity use 
of 6,000 homes or driving 145 million kilometers in a car.
since 2014, the percentage of recycled silver in the global 
silver supply has remained relatively flat, currently making up 
approximately 17% of the global supply. pandora is engaging 
its supplier base to increase the overall availability of recy-
cled metals. in 2020, we conducted an in-depth survey of 
all of our key gold and silver suppliers to better understand 
their current and future ability to provide recycled metals. 
our stones shine bright with a lower impact
pandora uses predominantly man-made stones. stones cre-
ated in a laboratory have a significantly lower environmental 
impact than their mined counterparts. 
according to a study by the environmental consultancy, 
trucost, the environmental cost of cubic zirconia is less than 
0.01% of that of a mined diamond, largely due to the vastly 
smaller quantity of energy required to produce cubic zirconia. 
more specifically, cubic zirconia uses 5,000 times less co2 and 
3,000 times less water per carat than a mined diamond. less 
than 1% of pandora’s stones are mined stones, used in very 
few collections. 
waste in crafting  
and distribution
achieving full circularity 
is not only about sourc-
ing renewable materials, 
it also includes reusing 
and minimising waste 
so that resources stay 
in use for as long as 
possible. pandora seeks 
a circular future where 
waste is eliminated.
1  pandora’s definition of ‘sustainable materials’ is based on certification standards and 
lifecycle assessments.
2  based on self-declared supplier data.
3  world silver survey, the silver institute 2020. 
4  pandora has achieved carbonneutral® product certification for pandora brilliance in 
accordance with the carbonneutral protocol, a leading global framework for carbon.
in line with previous years, pandora purchased 1.2 billion 
stones in 2020. more than 99% of these were man-made, 
primarily cubic zirconia and nanocrystals. 
packaging and store materials
another key focus area is how we design our packaging to ensure 
it adheres to the same circularity principles as our products. 
we believe that a beautiful piece of jewellery should come in 
sustainable packaging. 
we are testing boxes and bags that use less plastic and less 
material overall. in 2020, we initiated a detailed review of our 
point-of-sales materials and of all our primary, secondary and 
tertiary packaging. we are exploring how we can use more circu-
lar materials that can be easily reused or recycled as well as how 
new approaches to design can reduce the amount of material 
used and the size of the packaging. making progress on our pack-
aging impact will also help to lower our transportation footprint. 
we are also looking into how we can make our stores more sus-
tainable by using circular materials for our display counters and 
through more efficient lighting. in 2021, we will further develop 
our approach to packaging, display materials and in-store furni-
ture and fixtures.
learn more about 
our efforts in this key 
area in the minimising 
impacts in crafting and 
distribution section on 
page 35.
moving to lab-created diamonds 
in 2021, pandora is launching its first collection with sustainably  
lab-created diamonds, pandora brilliance, in the uk.  
the collection marks the introduction of pandora’s first 
carbonneutral® certified product4 and signals our journey 
towards offering more low-carbon products to conscious 
consumers. 
going forward, mined diamonds will no longer be used in 
pandora’s products.
23
23
our strategic priorities
story
gearing up on  
in-store repair
an important aspect of circularity is to enable  
longer use of pandora jewellery through repair 
and refurbishment. 
in 2020, pandora introduced three new global services 
globally that contribute to the longevity and sustainability 
of its products: 
1   polishing of tarnished silver, rose, and shine products 
2   adjustment of clip locks
3   adjustment of earring posts 
previously, products had to be shipped to a repair shop, 
but now a faster and easier repair process results in fewer 
replacements and remelts. this means fewer emissions 
associated with transport of products to be repaired and 
a more environmentally friendly way to repair customers’ 
jewellery.
“by handling  
these minor  
adjustments  
in-house, we do 
not only reduce 
waste, but we also 
deliver a much 
greater customer  
experience.”
martino pessina,  
chief commercial officer
24
24
our strategic priorities
ensuring a positive working environment for 
our employees across manufacturing, retail, 
distribution, and in our offices is a top priority 
and one of our fundamental responsibilities 
as an employer. 
our commitment to equal rights and opportunities for all 
employees is reflected in our policies and programmes. our 
responsibility also extends to respecting the dignity and 
human rights of those touched by our business. 
fostering an inclusive and diverse workplace  
globally, 2020 was a year of intense discussions around 
inclusion and diversity. black lives matter and the continued 
#metoo movement brought these topics to the forefront like 
never before, and many businesses had to consider their roles 
and ask themselves if they could do more to promote equality 
and respect.
inclusivity and diversity are essential parts of the pandora 
brand, and we conducted a company-wide anonymous survey 
to gauge employees’ views on what is going well and where we 
collectively need to improve. the survey results will inform a 
new inclusion and diversity strategy, which will be unrolled in 
the coming year. 
our diversity policy  
  lays out gender diversity targets for 
the board of directors and for senior management, requiring 
no less than 40% representation for each gender. in 2020, 
pandora’s gender split was as follows:
 • on our board of directors, 75% of the members were 
women and 25% were men (six out of eight members were 
women). this is an increase of female representation since 
2019 and above average for large publicly-listed danish 
companies. 
 • our executive leadership team had 12.5% women and 
87.5% men (one woman out of eight members). 
with a clear majority of women on the board of directors 
and men on the executive leadership team, our 40% targets 
were thus not met in 2020. our primary focus during the 
inclusivity 
and diversity 
are essential  
parts of the 
pandora 
brand.
inclusive and fair  
culture
our strategic priorities
pandora’s
commitment 

develop a strategy for  
inclusion and diversity  
to further advance equality  
in and beyond our company.
25
25
our strategic priorities
turnaround of our business has been to ensure the neces-
sary management capacity, irrespective of gender, to rapidly 
improve our growth trajectory. ensuring diversity, in all shapes 
and forms, across our leadership teams will remain an area of 
particular focus going forward.
at pandora, we base all hiring, promoting and rewarding on 
merit, qualifications and behaviour only, and we do not accept 
discrimination. this is specified in our diversity policy and our 
code of conduct.
attracting and developing talent at pandora 
with products sold on six continents, pandora offers a wide 
range of career opportunities for its employees.
in 2020, pandora added more than 800 new positions to its 
global workforce in order to support growth. among these 
positions, more than 200 people from over 40 different 
countries were new hires in the global office. more than 200 
promotions   
globally  
in 2020
>350
talent attraction
new positions  
globally in 2020
people from 
over 40 different 
countries joined 
our global office 
in copenhagen
nationalities  
represented at  
our digital hub  
in copenhagen
>800 
>200
20
in 2020, pandora had more than 
26,000 employees globally
employees by employment type
promotions
73%
12%
full-time  
employees
15%
part-time 
employees
temporary 
employees
employees were promoted as part of the strategic reorgan-
isation. in addition, as part of our turnaround efforts and to 
drive a better customer experience, we strengthened our  
digital capabilities in copenhagen by opening a new digital 
hub with almost 100 employees of 20 different nationalities. 
 
guided in part by feedback from employees, we introduced 
new career bands to promote career development and mobil-
ity and to set a common language for talent management and 
recruitment across all employee groups worldwide.
another way in which we develop our talent is through pandora’s 
training and development programmes. the programmes span 
online learning tools and in-house workshops, and they are 
offered to employees across the globe and in different roles. 
in total, pandora offers more than 500 different courses.  
they include development for managers to make them better 
leaders, retail training, product launches, our jewellery crafting 
26
26
our strategic priorities
pandora’s primary  
salient human rights 
risks
harassment and  
gendered impacts 
modern slavery and 
forced labour 
child labour and  
juvenile work 
working hours, wages 
and benefits 
discrimination and 
equality 
privacy
freedom of association 
and collective bargaining 
access to grievance 
mechanisms 
online advertising 
training
number of  
employees with learning  
activity (per year)
total hours  
(per year)
avarage hours 
per employee  
(per year)
all retail
29,252
720,174
24.6
all office
3,744
30,064
8
all manufacturing
3,701
18,688
5
skills, approach to sustainability, health and safety, in-store 
after services, project management, data privacy, and coach-
ing. we also have mandatory code of conduct training for all 
pandora employees. 
at our crafting facilities in thailand we offer training and 
development that go beyond technical skills and cover 
safety, health and life skills, such as parenthood and personal 
finances. this approach benefits our own workforce and has 
a positive effect in the surrounding communities. in 2020, the 
average training hours per employee in thailand decreased 
due to social distancing requirements and covid-19. 
building up our human rights programme
at pandora, we respect the human rights of our employees, 
customers and business partners, the workers in our supply 
chain and the communities in which we operate. our com-
mitment is aligned with the un guiding principles on business 
and human rights (ungps) and is expressed in our human 
rights policy  
  and our supplier code of conduct.  
   
a central pillar of our approach is the commitment to  
proactive due diligence in line with the ungps.
pandora’s first human rights impact assessment
in 2020, we conducted a human rights impact assessment 
covering 100% of our operations to better understand the 
human rights risks and impacts in our entire value chain. the 
assessment highlighted a set of salient human rights issues 
for pandora and reinforced the need for increased standard-
isation of processes and clear governance of human rights 
across the entire company, not just the supply chain. while 
some issues were familiar, such as the risks of forced labour 
and child labour in our supply chains, others highlighted newer 
challenges. these include the need to assess our impact in 
digital advertising and marketing, be more conscious of risks 
27
27
our strategic priorities
working with the union in thailand 
at pandora, we support our employees’ right to associate free-
ly and to engage in collective bargaining. collective bargaining 
agreements are predominantly present in our manufacturing 
locations. 
we started to collaborate with the union at our crafting facili-
ties in thailand as soon as it was established in 2018. the local 
hr team holds monthly meetings with the union to discuss 
current matters and follow up on concerns. we ensure that the 
notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation 
are specified in the collective agreement. the company also 
organises training on labour law and labour relations for union 
committees to enable them to gain an understanding of their 
rights and responsibilities under the law and to work with the 
company in building good labour relations. 
relevant 
information 
regarding the 
whistleblower  
policy is pro-
moted to all 
new hires 
and it can be 
accessed via 
our corporate 
website or  
intranet. 
to specific employee groups such as women, and engage 
business partners, particularly franchisees, in human rights 
and labour issues. 
the impact assessment will be used as the basis for our 
human rights risk mitigation efforts and to ensure proper risk 
governance across the company. find more information about 
supply chain-specific human rights risks and management in 
the sourcing the responsible way section on page 32.   
 
grievance mechanism   
pandora provides an externally managed whistleblower 
hotline. this allows employees and external stakeholders to 
raise concerns in their local language if they witness violations 
of legislation or our code of conduct, which covers respect 
for human rights. relevant information regarding the whis-
tleblower policy is promoted to all new hires and it can be 
accessed via our corporate website or intranet. 
in 2020, 37 cases were raised through our whistleblower hotline. 
most cases related to store staff and involved reports of poten-
tial harassment, unfair treatment, conflicts of interest and other 
unethical behaviour. a few cases related to office staff, involving 
reports of potential bribery and inappropriate or unethical 
behaviour. some cases resulted in disciplinary action. not all 
cases were substantiated with evidence, but all cases were in-
vestigated, providing anonymity where possible, and non-retal-
iation measures. none of the cases had a severe impact on our 
business operations or a material financial impact. 
empowering vulnerable youth  
in 2019, pandora entered a long-term partnership with 
unicef to help reach more than 10 million children and young 
people and provide them with opportunities to learn, express 
themselves and find work in the future. throughout the first 
year of the partnership, pandora designed and marketed a 
series of jewellery in support of unicef. we also engaged 
employees across our global organisation in our work with 
unicef. as a result, pandora raised usd 3.4 million for unicef, 
including a usd 1 million donation to unicef’s covid-19 
response. read more about some of the projects we support 
to empower the next generation on page 28.   
 
since 2006, pandora’s local charity project, the “my school 
project”, has allowed our thai colleagues to nominate their 
old primary schools for refurbishment or rebuilding. so far, 15 
schools have benefited from this support, which has positively 
impacted thousands of children in rural thai communities. in 
addition, every year our local offices and thai facilities organise 
various charitable events under the “big heart spirit project” to 
give back to the local communities.  
28
28
our strategic priorities
story
supporting  
the next  
generation 
the world is home to 1.8 billion young  
people. they represent our future and have 
the potential to become the next generation 
of great leaders, entrepreneurs and  
innovators. 
young people have the potential to change the world for the 
better. however, without the right resources and opportu-
nities, these achievements will remain a distant dream for 
the vast majority of young people, especially girls. globally, 
22% of young people aged 15–24 years are neither in em-
ployment, education or training. 68% of whom are girls and 
young women. 
in continued support of our 
partnership with unicef, 
pandora hosted a creative 
workshop in 2020, driven 
by a wish to inspire young 
minds to envision their fu-
ture. as captured in a short 
film voiced by actor and 
pandora ambassador millie 
bobby brown, the copen-
hagen-based event brought 
together a group of children 
to get creative, dream big 
and show what they could 
create with a simple card-
board box.
29
29
our strategic priorities
guatemala 
the purpose of the upshift 
programme in guatemala 
is to empower marginal-
ised adolescents and youth 
(indigenous and rural areas) to 
become social innovators and 
social entrepreneurs.
serbia 
the objective of the pro-
gramme is to identify and 
empower young people with 
skills, opportunities and in-
ternship placements - creat-
ing the largest young people’s 
movement to support private 
sector enterprises, central 
and local level institutions and 
young people.
nepal 
the upshift programme in 
nepal will seek to empower 
and build transferable skills 
among vulnerable adolescent 
girls, while supporting social 
dialogue around gender roles 
and amplifying the voices of 
marginalised youth.
china 
the programme supports 
adolescent girls and boys 
to develop 21st century 
skills and build resilience 
and employability skills. 
burundi 
socially excluded adolescent 
girls in (peri-) urban areas are 
supported to become social 
entrepreneurs and access 
gender-transformative so-
cio-economic opportunities.
  by combining strengths, pandora and unicef work to 
improve access to quality learning opportunities for young 
people through programmes that support skills develop-
ment, social innovation and entrepreneurship, like unicef’s 
upshift approach. 
these programmes are designed to support the develop-
ment of skills for life and livelihood, and support young 
people to positively engage with their local communities as 
change-makers. as part of a long-term partnership, pandora 
will help raise funds for unicef programmes in burundi, 
china, guatemala, nepal and serbia. 
to increase knowledge on how to engage and empower 
adolescents in the best possible way, pandora also supports 
unicef research in this area. every year pandora allocates 
50% of its funding to unicef’s regular resources to accom-
modate potential funding needs for unforeseen humanitar-
ian crises and support its every day vital work to ensure that 
every child survives and thrives. each year pandora launches  
two new products under the concept of “charms for change”,  
where a proportion of the purchase price of each charm is 
donated to unicef.
charms  
for change 
in 2020
30
30
chapter title
03
sustainability 
from source  
to sale
31
31
sustainability from source to sale
our strategic priorities, described in the previous 
section, have touchpoints across our value chain,  
but there are many other sustainability impacts that  
pandora considers fundamental for responsible  
business operations.
this next section details our approach to ensuring 
sustainable practices across these other relevant  
issues, from source to sale.
32
32
sustainability from source to sale
sourcing the  
responsible way
pandora predominantly uses gold, silver,  
palladium, copper and man-made stones  
such as nanocrystals and cubic zirconia in its 
jewellery. we also use materials such as nat-
ural gemstones, leather, polyester and glass, 
although in significantly smaller volumes. 
our point-of-sales materials are mainly wood-based products 
but also include plastics and other materials. in 2020, silver 
accounted for over half of all purchased product materials, 
measured by weight.
pandora’s supply chain is comprised of a relatively small 
number of suppliers compared to similarly sized manufac-
turing and retail businesses. the vast majority of our product 
suppliers are based in and around thailand while our largest 
suppliers of point-of-sales materials are located in china and 
south east asia. on www.pandoragroup.com  
 , we list our 
primary precious metal and diamond suppliers.
guiding policies  
& supplier code 
responsibility,  
traceability and  
transparency
material & supplier selection 
third-party verification
compliance monitoring 
frequent desktop  
and on-site audits  
conducted depending  
on nature of  
certification
compliance,  
verification & supplier 
screening
responsible sourcing programme
we work to continuously improve the social and environ-
mental footprint of our supply chain, primarily by choosing 
suppliers that comply with category-specific internationally 
recognised standards. 
pandora supports and aligns its approach with the oecd due 
diligence guidance for responsible supply chains of minerals 
from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. all the gold 
and silver grains we buy is certified according to the london 
bullion market association (lbma) “good delivery list” or 
the responsible jewellery council (rjc) chain-of-custody 
standard. we only accept diamond suppliers who are mem-
bers of the rjc and can certify compliance with the system 
of warranties for diamond sourcing established by the world 
diamond council. 
pandora’s responsible sourcing programme 
we mitigate sustainability risks in our supply chain through our 
responsible sourcing programme (rsp). the programme was 
created as a means of implementing two foundational policies:
in 2020, silver  
represented  
50% of all pur-
chased product 
materials when 
measured by 
weight.
33
33
sustainability from source to sale
 • supplier code of conduct  
 – this policy outlines pandora’s 
requirements to supplier performance on business ethics, 
human rights, working conditions and the environment. it is 
embedded in all product supplier contracts, and most in-
direct supplier contracts. exceptions are rare and managed 
using pre-established screening criteria and if required, on 
a case-by-case basis. the newly updated supplier code of 
conduct aligns with the ethical trading initiative (eti) base 
code and will be rolled out to suppliers in 2021. 
 • responsible sourcing policy  
 – this policy describes how 
we ensure that our suppliers adhere to the supplier code 
of conduct, and clarifies pandora’s underlying ambitions to 
have a responsible, transparent and traceable supply chain. 
monitoring our suppliers
to ensure that our suppliers adhere to our supplier code of 
conduct, they are subject to regular monitoring as part of the 
responsible sourcing programme. in 2020, we adopted the 
internationally recognised smeta 4-pillar audit methodology 
for all third-party audits commissioned by pandora. the sme-
ta methodology covers all aspects of responsible business 
practices, namely labour, health and safety, environmental 
management and business ethics standards. audits include 
desktop research and on-site reviews, including interviews 
with workers. we are currently in the process of updating the 
rsp approach with a roll-out taking place over the next two 
years.
all product suppliers are screened according to identified 
risk criteria. suppliers that are considered high-risk, are re-
quired to undertake a biannual third-party audit or confirm 
pandora-accepted certifications that verify compliance with 
our standards. 
34
34
sustainability from source to sale
50%
2%
16%
2%
2%
4%
11%
10%
1% 1%
1%
this also applies to:
 • certain high-risk categories in our indirect supply base, 
including point-of-sales and fixtures and furniture suppliers.
 • suppliers that are required to comply with materials tracea-
bility requirements. 
we prepare corrective action plans for all suppliers with  
identified non-conformances, and our supplier development  
team ensures that all issues are resolved within the 
our supply 
chain is and 
will remain  
a key focus  
area of 
our human 
rights risk 
mitigation 
efforts.
pre-determined timeframes. while rare, zero-tolerance cases 
may result in contract termination.
2020 product supplier performance
pandora ordered a total of 15 independent third-party  
factory audits in 2020. the audits covered 13 direct suppliers,  
representing 30% of the product supplier spending. the 
remaining amount of product suppliers are certified against 
other internationally recognised standards accepted by 
pandora (60%), are due for their bi-annual third-party audit in 
2021 (9%), or are considered low-risk under the rsp screening 
process (1%). 
the audits performed in 2020 identified 274 non-conform-
ances, of which 149 were categorised as minor, 123 as major 
and 2 as zero tolerance.
the majority of non-conformance cases in 2020 touched on 
issues such as health and safety, environmental management, 
and compensation and benefits. however, some instances of 
forced labour and child labour were identified. forced labour 
non-conformances involved the signing of contracts too 
long after initiation of performed work, as well as shortcom-
ings on documentation, training and communication. some 
audits also revealed that facilities lacked proper child labour 
policies.  
the two zero-tolerance breaches involved a missing license  
at a supplier facility and two young workers operating unau-
thorised equipment. the case of equipment usage by young 
workers was resolved and factory policy awareness-raising 
was performed. in the case of the missing factory license, 
the case is still pending but has a closely followed corrective 
action plan in place. 
for more information on our approach to managing forced 
and child labour, please see our annual transparency in supply 
chains statement.   
 
respecting human rights in our supply chain
our supply chain is and will remain a key focus area of our 
human rights risk mitigation efforts.
historically, human rights violations in the jewellery supply 
chain have primarily been associated with the upstream ex-
traction of product raw materials, mainly in mining of metals 
such as gold, silver, copper and palladium, and minerals such 
as natural gemstones. there are also human rights risks in 
the recycled metals supply chain, primarily related to the 
informal recycling of electronic and industrial waste from 
the extraction of gold and silver. lastly, pandora recognises 
human rights risks in its manufacturing supply chain, includ-
ing risks associated with modern slavery, largely assessed by 
third-party audits.
pandora’s business model effectively reduces human rights 
risks in its upstream supply chain. because we operate a lean 
supply chain with relatively few suppliers, we can build long-
term relationships and minimise risks. 
pandora’s decision to source only recycled gold and silver by 
2025 will further reduce its risk exposure as risks are greater 
in mining than in the recycled metals supply chain. the fact 
that we predominantly use man-made stones also significant-
ly reduces risks related to mining. as we continuously move 
towards becoming a more circular business, we expect to 
further reduce the risk profile of our upstream supply chains, 
conducting due diligence and risk mitigation as necessary. 
non-conformances identified at  
third-party audits (direct suppliers) (%)
  child labour
  compensation & benefits
  discrimination & harrasment
  disciplinary practice
  environment
  forced labour
  health & safety
  working hours
  ethics
  freedom of association
  licence
35
35
sustainability from source to sale
minimising  
impacts in crafting  
and distribution
pandora is committed to minimising its  
environmental impact. 
we do this by adopting internationally recognised and  
certifiable environmental management systems, tracking  
and reporting progress on key environmental indicators,  
pursuing the principles of circularity, and actively engaging 
with stakeholders. our actions are governed by the  
company’s environmental policy.  
 
 
maintaining the highest standards at our  
crafting facilities
pandora owns and operates two large crafting facilities in 
bangkok and lamphun in thailand. we maintain a number  
of certifications at each location.
in 2021, we have plans to conduct iso 50001 and leed  
operations certification at both sites.
lamphun
 • iso 9001, 14001 and 45001
 • leed (leadership in energy 
and environmental design) 
gold building certification
 • rjc-compliant
bangkok
 • iso 9001, 14001 and 45001
 • leed (leadership in energy 
and environmental design) 
gold building certification 
at our main crafting facility
 • rjc-compliant
product safety and quality 
pandora is committed to producing jewellery with materials 
deemed safe for its consumers, workers and environment. 
pandora products contain no hazardous chemicals and we 
maintain a list of restricted substances which all suppliers 
are required to adhere to. this also applies to our consumer 
packaging. suppliers must provide proper records as proof, 
and test certificates are required as compliance evidence. 
pandora’s crafting facilities have an active iso 9001 (quality  
management) certification. 
waste
we aim to run our crafting facilities and distribution centres in 
a fully circular way. we pursue this aim by reducing and recycling 
waste materials. in 2020, we generated 6,970 tonnes of waste 
at our crafting facilities, 12% more than in 2019. this increase is 
due to newly implemented covid-19 protocols, which result-
ed in an increased amount of single-use items being disposed 
of at our crafting facilities. our facilities generate waste from 
raw materials, production processes, deteriorated products 
and wastewater. 
 
we aim to run 
our crafting 
facilities and 
distribution 
centres in a fully 
circular way.
36
36
sustainability from source to sale
gypsum
rubber
wax
glass
in 2020, we succeeded in maintaining a very high overall 
waste recycling rate of 90%, a 2% improvement on 2019. we 
achieved this by recycling 100% of our four primary waste 
streams: gypsum, glass, wax and rubber. as we are not able to 
repurpose these waste streams within our own operations, we 
have partnered with other industries to give them a second 
life and contribute to the circular economy. 
gypsum accounts for over 50% of the waste at our facilities. it 
is recycled at a nearby construction centre. glass waste is re-
cycled into various glass products, wax waste is used to make 
candles or as a moulding material for other manufacturers, 
and rubber waste is made into plastic products or used as fuel 
by the cement industry. pandora selects third-party waste 
managers and contractors based on their ability to recycle 
waste as the first priority. if no contractor is able to recycle it, 
incineration is the next option, followed by landfill disposal.
we communicate our waste policy to all employees to raise 
awareness and reduce waste. we also set quarterly and annual 
objectives and goals to reduce, reuse, and recycle. the policy 
includes a description of how waste should be segregated and 
controlled. 
at our distribution centres, we have a multi-stream recycling 
programme. dedicated bins at our facilities allow us to prop-
erly dispose of recyclable materials and ensure we follow local 
guidelines. most of the waste comes from packaging, such as 
plastic zip bags, labels and cardboard boxes. each distribution 
centre has its own policy with a strong focus on recycling. 
in 2020, we recycled 100% of our four  
primary waste streams
some distribution centres produce small amounts of hazard-
ous waste in the form of batteries and light tubes. these are 
disposed of according to local legislation. 
water consumption
we have two main objectives with regards to water consump-
tion: reduce use and increase recycling. water consumption 
at our crafting facilities increased 5% from 931,072 m3 in 
2019 to 973,481 m3 in 2020. the water consumption was 
greater in 2020 due to increased production volumes and the 
launch of our new end-to-end plating jewellery facility. we 
increased the water recycling rate from 14% in 2019 to 16% in 
2020 as a result of various investments in recycling capacity. 
the recycled water quality is measured with parameters to 
maintain equipment integrity and reduce breakdown using 
external iso17025 standard lab. our lamphun facility is most 
advanced in this area and recycled 50% of water in 2020.  
our bangkok facility sources water from the local metropolitan 
waterworks authority. water-related impacts are assessed 
and managed in accordance with iso 14001. fresh water 
is used for drinking water and processes like tumbling and 
plating, while recycled water is used for industrial processes 
like mortar injection. to reduce water consumption, we use 
automatic taps and efficient measurement systems, and we 
routinely inspect our systems. we are exploring ways of fur-
ther increasing our water recycling by utilising it for processes 
like drainage and mortar mixing. 
wastewater and chemicals management 
we maintain strict control over the use of chemicals in our 
manufacturing processes. wastewater and chemicals-related 
impacts are controlled and addressed in accordance with 
the international iso 14001 standard. this includes regular 
recording of water consumption data and limiting the use of 
90%
of all waste at 
crafting facilities 
was recycled
37
37
sustainability from source to sale
2020
2019
2018
reservoir water resources by recycling. we train employees 
at our crafting facilities in hazardous chemical spill response 
and wastewater and hazardous waste control. all wastewater 
at our crafting facilities is measured for quality and treated 
through the buildings’ wastewater treatment system as well 
as the treatment system of the industrial estate before it is 
released back into the local water supply.
biodiversity
we have conducted an environmental impact assessment 
at our crafting facilities that included a biodiversity assess-
ment in accordance with the standards required by law. local 
third-party agencies inspect the facilities on an annual basis. 
our distribution centres also conduct a biodiversity assess-
ment when required by law and currently none are located 
near protected areas.
safety
occupational health and safety is an important concern for 
pandora across the value chain, and we are committed to 
creating a healthy and safe workplace for all of our employees 
and customers. 
crafting facilities
the health and safety policy at pandora’s crafting facilities 
ensures that we always act responsibly. our policy covers all 
workers, including contractors, and visitors. training is provided 
to all staff and we monitor performance closely. in 2020, there 
were zero high-consequence injuries and seven work-related 
lost time injuries, compared with four in 2019, among more 
than 11,000 employees at our crafting facilities in thailand. 
the lost time injury frequency rate (ltifr) remains low at 0.27. 
in 2021 we kicked off a dedicated “together towards zero” 
campaign to reach zero accidents at our crafting facilities. the 
campaign focusses on four areas on zero accidents culture, 
zero health risks, zero waste and zero non-compliance. 
in order to ensure strong governance over the implementa-
tion of our standards and policies, we have a safety, health 
and environment (she) committee comprising senior man-
agement and elected employee representatives. together 
with external experts, the committee is responsible for 
continuously improving standards and correcting cases of 
non-compliance. in addition to the safety committee, we have 
suggestion boxes, daily safety observation by area owners, 
and a hotline call centre.  
an iso 45001 management review is conducted annually to 
drive the safety culture towards zero injuries. all work-re-
lated incidents are investigated thoroughly and tracked. we 
have emergency plans for fire, chemical spills, gas release 
and medical emergencies. employees participate in annual 
water  
recycled
10%
14%
16%
38
38
sustainability from source to sale
drills and related training in, for example, basic fire-fighting 
and chemical spill response. lastly, our rjc code of practices 
certification ensures that we conduct labour audits against 
the jewellery industry’s highest safety standards.
at pandora, we are focused on ensuring our employees have 
access to proper health services at our crafting facilities. this 
includes health promotion activities, wellbeing programmes, 
24-hour nurse cover, occupational physicians’ support twice 
a week, and medical doctors three times a week. pandora 
supports people with disabilities in the workplace and local 
community. relevant training, tools, support systems and ac-
cessibility are crucial for creating a safe, healthy, and welcom-
ing environment for the more than 100 colleagues with special 
needs who work at our crafting facilities. we also support local 
programmes focusing on people with disabilities, for example 
by supporting the construction of a sustainable agriculture 
learning centre for people with disabilities near our crafting 
facility in lamphun. 
distribution centres
pandora provides occupational health and safety training 
for all employees. training varies by distribution centre and 
includes first aid, fire protection, evacuation, dangers when 
working at the warehouse, working with forklift trucks, working 
with electric and hydraulic presses, and emergency prepar-
edness.
all distribution centres follow local occupational health and 
safety laws. in addition, our facility in thailand has implement-
ed the international iso 45001 standard. our facility in the us 
has a safety and wellness committee at our logistics centre 
that meets monthly.   
at pandora,  
we are  
focused on
ensuring our  
employees  
have the  
proper 
health  
services at  
our crafting  
facilities.
39
39
sustainability from source to sale
upholding  
sustainability in 
retail and sales
consumers can find our jewellery at more than 7,000 points 
of sale in over 100 countries. during 2020, we had more than 
650 million visits to our physical and online stores. interacting 
with millions of people every day comes with a responsibili-
ty, and we ensure sustainable business practices in this part 
of our value chain through strong governance, policies, and 
practice. 
responsible marketing 
pandora does not market its jewellery to children, nor has it 
identified any non-compliance issues with marketing or label-
ling regulations or voluntary codes. 
all pandora jewellery is marked with a hallmark indicating 
the type of metal core. a hallmark is one or a series of marks 
stamped into items made of precious metals to guarantee a 
certain purity, fineness and origin. our product disclosures 
and hallmarking practices are audited as part of our rjc code 
of practices certification, and our product disclosure guide 
ensures uniform disclosure practices across all our products. 
to better understand how we impact consumers and in order 
to improve our responsible marketing efforts, we performed 
an inclusion and diversity review of our marketing practices 
in 2020. the review will serve as the basis for updates to our 
responsible marketing practices in 2021.
customer privacy and data protection
pandora regularly handles personal data relating to customers. 
personal data is only used for legitimate business purposes 
and is protected, used, stored and shared in accordance with 
the manner agreed upon collection and in accordance with 
applicable data protection laws. we offer relevant training 
and guidelines for our staff. complaints are investigated and 
resolved in line with applicable data protection legislation, and 
for 2020 no substantiated issues related to pandora’s handling 
of customer data were reported. 
environmental footprint of our stores 
in addition to minimising waste at our crafting facilities, we 
encourage all store staff to sort and dispose of in-store 
waste and adhere to local disposal and recycling require-
ments. our employees are expected to exhibit environmental 
thoughtfulness and sound practices in daily operations.  
they actively participate in required environmental train-
ing and campaigns. whenever national law differs from our 
environmental policy  
 , pandora employees must adhere to 
the stricter of the two. in 2020, we rolled out sustainability 
training modules for our staff on our commitments and three 
strategic pillars. in 2021, we are planning to assess global 
waste management systems for our key waste materials as 
pandora expands its circular ambitions. 
all pandora jewellery is 
marked with a hallmark 
indicating the type of 
metal core.
 
brand protection
pandora has a dedicated 
brand protection team 
whose main work involves 
the enforcement of its 
intellectual property 
rights. their overall goal 
is to protect pandora’s 
revenue and brand – for 
example aim at ensuring 
that pandora jewellery 
is only sold through 
authorised points of sale, 
so customers can have a 
safe shopping experience.
40
40
chapter title
04
business ethics
41
41
business ethics
ensuring  
sound business  
practices
pandora code of conduct
the pandora code of conduct provides our employees and 
business partners with a framework to guide them through 
pandora’s core values. the code covers topics such as work-
place culture, sustainability, conflicts of interest, financial 
crime detection and prevention, fair competition, and 
privacy and personal data protection. we work to ensure a 
culture of honest and ethical conduct and pandora requires 
all individuals within the organisation to adhere to both the 
letter and spirit of the code, as well as all underlying applica-
ble policies, standards and procedures. we also expect those 
pandora’s commitment to ethical business practices means that we 
conduct business lawfully, appropriately and with honesty and integ-
rity by adhering to applicable laws and regulations, exercising sound 
judgment and taking actions to minimise our environmental impact  
on the planet.
who we conduct business with to share and observe these 
same values.
in 2020, we launched an updated code of conduct with 
extensive mandatory training being planned for roll-out in 
early 2021. 
responsible tax 
pandora’s tax strategy supports a positive tax contribution to 
society and governments, and it aims at paying a fair tax in all 
markets where pandora operates. 
pandora will only implement structures that are driven by 
commercial strategy and we will refrain from unnecessar-
ily complex tax set-ups. this results in a simple and busi-
ness-aligned model which is well understood and based on 
in-depth analysis of the tax impact.
pandora understands the need for more transparency by 
both taxpayers and tax administrations to ensure trust in the 
global corporate tax system and to provide more clarity about 
pandora’s position on tax. we provide regular tax informa-
tion to our stakeholders, including investors, policy makers, 
employees and the general public. pandora communicates 
openly about its tax payments and effective tax rates in its key 
markets. in 2020, pandora paid dkk 192 million in corporate 
income tax. the significant decrease in tax paid compared with 
previous years (dkk 1,233 million in 2019) is caused by lower 
profit in general compared with 2019 as a result of covid-19. 
the board of directors are responsible for the tax policy  
  
as we believe tax is a core part of corporate responsibility.  
the responsibility for tax risk management lies with the 
group cfo and is overseen by the audit committee. 
breaches 
no significant fines or sanctions for violation of environ-
mental and socioeconomic laws or regulations were issued 
to pandora in 2020. pandora did not receive any fines nor 
cases filed with authorities related to anti-competitive or 
anti-corruption behaviour in 2020. for more information on 
the reported whistle-blower hotline cases, see the inclusive 
and fair culture section on page 27  
  and for more infor-
mation on supplier non-conformances, see the sourcing the 
responsible way section on page 34.  
 
in 2020, we 
launched an 
updated global 
code of conduct, 
with extensive  
mandatory  
training being 
planned for  
roll-out in  
early 2021.
learn more about our 
pandora code of conduct 
on pandoragroup.com/
sustainability.
42
42
chapter title
05
annex
43
43
annex
sustainability 
governance
pandora’s sustainability board, which reports to the board 
of directors1, sets the corporate sustainability strategy and 
roadmap, which is implemented by the corporate sustain-
ability team. the sustainability board receives three to four 
updates per year from the corporate sustainability team on 
strategy implementation, progress towards achieving our  
sustainability targets and identified risks and opportunities.
the nine-member sustainability board is chaired by our cfo 
and includes four other members of pandora’s executive 
leadership team. the following corporate functions are 
currently represented on the sustainability board: supply 
chain, product, retail, human resources, marketing, and 
corporate communications and sustainability. sustainability 
board members are responsible for integrating sustainability 
into the operations of their respective functions with support 
provided by the corporate sustainability team.
for sustainability-related supply chain governance, we estab-
lished a new cross-functional responsible sourcing committee  
(rsc) in 2020. this seven-member committee oversees the 
implementation of the responsible sourcing policy and  
programme, reviews and recommends approaches for the use 
of new materials, and advises on specific supplier relationships 
on a case-by-case basis. the rsc is co-chaired by the vp  
supply chain and director corporate sustainability, meets 
twice a year and reports to the sustainability board.
pandora’s corporate sustainability team, led by the vp  
corporate communications and sustainability, manages  
the company’s global environmental, social and governance 
portfolio and is based at pandora’s global office in copenhagen.  
the team reports to the chief human resources officer, who 
is a member of the executive leadership team.  
board of directors
sustainability board
corporate sustainability team
responsible sourcing committee
for supply chain issues only
executive leadership team
sustainability 
board members 
are responsible 
for integrating 
sustainability 
into the  
operations of 
their respective  
functions.
sustainability governance 
at pandora
our sustainability governance structure ensures that our sustainability 
programme meets pandora’s social and environmental ambitions and 
supports the business.  
1  all eight members of the board of directors are regarded as independent.
44
44
annex
a team of pandora auditors and responsible sourcing experts 
is based at our local offices in thailand. 
managing risk
pandora’s enterprise risk management is focused on identify-
ing risks early, assessing them thoroughly, and taking actions 
to mitigate them so they will not prevent the company from 
achieving its business and sustainability objectives. we see 
a well-functioning risk management process, which includes 
sustainability risk, as key to maintaining and building pandora’s 
position as the number one jewellery brand in the world.
at pandora, risk management is an enterprise-wide effort, 
with management teams across our value chain being respon-
sible for the continuous identification, assessment, mitigation 
and reporting of current and emerging risks. the corporate 
sustainability team participates in this exercise and assesses 
relevant risks quarterly.  
pandora also has a dedicated risk management policy. pando-
ra’s cfo heads the company’s risk management board, which 
consists of senior management representatives from across 
our value chain.
management teams are required to report their most signif-
icant risks to the global risk office, along with assessments 
of those risks and an overview of implemented mitigation 
and next milestones. all risk assessments take into account 
the likelihood of an event and its potential impact on the 
business. the impact is quantified and assessed in terms of 
potential financial loss or reputational damage. the risk man-
agement board is assisted in its work by the global risk office, 
which serves as secretariat to the board. the global risk 
office’s role is to review, support management on risk infor-
mation and consolidate the corporate risk profile containing 
in addition to company-wide risk management, we will plan 
to regularly update our sustainability materiality assessment 
to ensure that we are capturing the full range of sustainability 
risks that may affect our business and that we are focusing on 
priority issues for our key stakeholders. for more information 
on climate-spacific risk management, see the tcfd reporting 
section on page 48.  
the company’s key risks. the final risk profile is reviewed by 
executive management, the audit committee and the board 
of directors.
the board of directors is ultimately responsible for assess-
ing the nature and extent of risk associated with pandora’s 
strategic direction and the implementation of effective risk 
identification, assessment and mitigation.
all risk  
assessments 
take into 
account the 
likelihood of 
an event and 
its potential 
impact on 
the business.
45
45
annex
stakeholder 
engagement
to understand sustainability issues related to our industry and our 
company more clearly as well as improve our programmes, we proac-
tively engage stakeholders and establish partnerships with a diverse 
set of experts and organisations. 
external stakeholders
internal  
stakeholders
engagement type
suppliers
communities
governments
multilateral  
institutions
ngos
industry  
organisations
investors
customers
employees
meetings
audits and trainings
unicef partnership
interviews
regulatory reporting 
and compliance
meetings on emerging 
initiatives and regulation
reporting
conferences
meetings
meetings
conferences
interviews
conferences
meetings
investor surveys and 
reports
meetings
surveys and focus 
groups
social media
customer support 
feedback
in-store feedback
surveys
events
training
intranet and blogs
meetings
engagement subject(s)
circular approach to 
business
responsible sourcing
sustainable materials
conflict minerals
product quality and 
safety
inclusion and diversity
human rights
socio-economic  
development in  
communities
climate change
conflict minerals
responsible sourcing
data security and 
privacy
waste and water in 
operations
chemicals and  
hazardous materials
responsible sourcing
climate change
conflict minerals
circular approach to 
business
responsible sourcing
sustainable materials
conflict minerals
responsible sourcing
employee health, safety 
and labour rights
circular approach to 
business
responsible sourcing
sustainable materials
conflict minerals
climate change
product quality and 
safety
corporate governance
business ethics and 
compliance
inclusion and diversity
responsible  
marketing
climate change
circular approach  
to business
circular approach to 
business
responsible sourcing
sustainable materials
climate change
corporate governance
business ethics and 
compliance
talent and development
since 2018, pandora has been a proud sponsor of the "next 
gen voices" initiatve at copenhagen fashion summit – the 
industry recognised summit within sustainable fashion.
46
46
annex
disclosure insight action
united nations global compact 
we are signatories to the united nations 
global compact (ungc) and acknowledge our 
responsibilities in the areas of human rights, 
labour, environment and anti-corruption.
task force on climate-related  
financial disclosures 
we are supporters of the task force on 
climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) 
and their recommendations to increase 
transparency on climate-related risks and 
opportunities on financial markets.
cdp 
carbon disclosure project (cdp) is a not-for-
profit charity that runs the global disclosure 
system for investors, companies, cities, states 
and regions to manage their environmental 
impacts. pandora reports on climate risks, 
opportunities, and progress in its annual cdp 
disclosure.
bsr 
pandora has been a member of bsr since 
2018. we use our membership to advance 
our understanding of best practice in cor-
porate sustainability management and to 
collaborate with peers.
responsible jewellery council 
pandora has been a certified member of the 
responsible jewellery council (rjc) since 
2012. rjc is an international not-for-profit 
standards and certification organisation 
with more than 1,000 member companies 
spanning the jewellery supply chain from 
mine to retail. 
unicef  
pandora and unicef have been partnering 
since 2019 to give young people the tools and 
opportunities they need to pursue their pas-
sions and fulfil their potential. the funds raised 
are supporting unicef’s education, gender 
equality, rights awareness, personal empower-
ment and civic engagement programmes. the 
partnership is also raising funds for unicef’s 
core work across the world to ensure that every 
child survives and thrives.
nordic business network for human rights 
the nordic business network for human 
rights (nbnhr) is a professional network 
for global companies who work with human 
rights impacts in their organisations or supply 
chains. moderated by the danish institute 
for human rights (dihr), member companies 
also include arla, biomar, danfoss, hempel, 
ikea, lego, lundbeck, neste, norsk hydro, 
novo nordisk, statkraft, vestas and yara.
notable partnerships and collaborations:
 
our key stakeholder groups include suppliers, customers, 
employees, governments, multilateral institutions, ngos, 
industry organisations and investors. we also participate in 
business networks that allow us to have open dialogues with 
cross-industry players on specific issues.
our methods of engagement range from regularly scheduled 
meetings to spontaneous interactions. the results of our en-
gagement take the form of increased disclosure and transpar-
ency in our sustainability reporting, new assessments and risk 
mitigation activities, enhanced grievance mechanisms, new 
memberships, participation in ratings and rankings, updated 
policies and programmes, and new targets, to name a few.
annex
47
47
un  
sustainable 
development 
goals
responsible consumption and production
circularity is central to how we design, craft, source and 
offer our products. for example, we use recycled metals 
in our products and the majority of our crafting waste is 
reused.
we have assessed pandora’s opportunities to 
support the sustainable development goals 
(sdgs) and have concluded that our business 
aligns most closely with four of the goals. 
in particular, we support sdg 12, responsible 
consumption and production, by committing 
to use only recycled gold and silver in our  
jewellery by 2025.
gender equality
we are an inclusive brand committed to advancing equality 
and diversity, for example through our partnership with 
unicef to fund programmes that support girls’ education 
and empowerment.
decent work and economic growth
across offices, stores and crafting, we strive to provide 
safe and healthy working conditions for more than 26,000 
employees.
climate action
we are intensifying our climate efforts by committing to set 
an emission reduction target in line with the paris agreement 
and best available science recommendations.
48
48
annex
tcfd  
reporting
governance
climate-related risks and opportunities are part of pandora’s 
enterprise risk management system reporting to the executive  
leadership team and the board of directors. pandora’s climate  
and renewable energy targets are governed by the sustain-
ability board, which has five members from the executive 
leadership team.
strategy
pandora’s strategy is to meet stakeholder expectations by 
becoming a low-carbon business. we will affect the transition 
of our own operations to carbon neutral by 2025 by focusing 
on increasing our use of renewable energy and increasing the 
energy efficiency of our crafting facilities and stores. further-
more, it is a key part of our strategy to engage with our supply 
chain to find opportunities to use less carbon intensive  
materials and to support their transition to a low-carbon 
future. we aim to elaborate further on our scope 3 strategy 
once we have finalised our science based target in 2021.  
pandora intends to conduct a scenario analysis in support of 
the tcfd recommendations within two years.  
 
for more information on our approach, see the low-carbon 
business section on page 16.  
risk management
pandora closely monitors both physical and transitional- 
related climate risk. in 2020, an overall analysis of climate risks 
and opportunities was performed as detailed in our publicly  
available cdp report. specific risks that were identified  
include reputation, emerging regulation, changing consumer  
preferences and an increase in extreme weather events 
disrupting production or our supply chain. based on the likeli-
hood and magnitude of occurrence, certain risks are brought 
to the attention of and discussed with the board of directors. 
this new lens will give pandora an additional perspective on 
climate-related risks, how they could evolve in the future and 
how we can best prepare for them.
metrics and targets
pandora measures its carbon footprint across all three green-
house gas scopes. approximately 1% of co₂ emissions are  
related to scope 1, 8% to scope 2 and 91% to scope 3. we  
focus on reducing all three scopes through our climate targets:  
1) become carbon neutral in our own operations by 2025, and 
2) set a science based target by the end of 2021. 
an overview of our reporting in line with recommendations outlined 
by the task force on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) is 
provided below. 
49
49
annex
about this  
report 
the report covers pandora’s global operations for the fiscal 
year 2020, including 1 january to 31 december 2020. 
our last report, published in june 2020, covered the 2019 
fiscal year and is available with previous sustainability reports 
at www.pandoragroup.com.  
the content and scope of this report were defined based 
on the significance of topics to both stakeholders and the 
sustainable growth of the company as determined by our 
sustainability materiality assessment. the scope covers our 
crafting facilities, supply chain, distribution centres, retail 
stores operated by pandora and our offices. all data bounda-
ries are specified alongside reported metrics. we are not able 
to provide historical data for metrics reported the first time 
in 2020.
this report has been prepared in accordance with the global 
reporting initiative (gri) standards’ “core” option. a gri index 
table is available at www.pandoragroup.com  
 , specifying 
each of the gri standards and listing all disclosures included 
in the report. we have also provided information on align-
ment with sasb (apparel, accessories & footwear) and tcfd 
standards  
 . pandora is committed to the united nations 
global compact ten principles and this report serves as our 
communication on progress. we have obtained independ-
ent external assurance for specific data points included in 
this report, specifically our scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions. find the independent auditor's limited assurance 
report on page 55.  
 
please contact  
sustainability@pandora.net 
if you have any questions or 
feedback on sustainability  
at pandora.
this sustainability report serves to provide an annual update to  
key stakeholders on pandora’s sustainability ambitions, strategy,  
key programmes and progress towards our corporate sustainability 
commitments.
50
50
annex
greenhouse gas emissions
unit
2020
2019
2018
scope 11
mtco2e
1,250
1,2522
1,3052
scope 21 (location-based)
mtco2e
 47,949 
48,0722
48,2022
scope 2, crafting facilities (location-based)
mtco2e
 26,618 
 26,232 
 28,227 
scope 2, crafting facilities (market-based)
mtco2e
03
-4 
 -4 
scope 31
mtco2e
 242,416  245,663 
 - 
c1: purchased goods and services
mtco2e
 157,908  176,895 
 - 
c2: capital goods
mtco2e
 9,121 
 10,222 
 - 
c3:  fuel-and-energy related activities
mtco2e
 3,685 
 3,628 
 - 
c4: upstream transportation
mtco2e
 40,637 
 21,586 
 - 
c5: waste generated in operations
mtco2e
 2,654 
 2,513 
 - 
c6: business travel
mtco2e
 350 
 920 
 - 
c7: employee commuting
mtco2e
 606 
 918 
 - 
c8: upstream leased assets
mtco2e
 1,298 
 1,421 
 - 
c14: franchises
mtco2e
 26,158 
 27,559 
 - 
emissions intensity  
mtco2e/revenue 
in dkk million
13.94
13.49
-
1 within audit’s assurance scope (see the independent auditors' limited assurance report on page 55).
2  scope 1 and 2 ghg emissions have been restated for 2019 and 2018 (see the restatement on page 54). 
3  a market-based approach is used in 2020 to take into account the purchase of renewable energy certificates 
4  not calculated because residual mix emission factors are not available for thailand.
environment
    accounting principles  
all emissions are accounted in accordance with the methodology set 
out in the greenhouse gas protocol corporate standard. all co2e 
emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance 
with the 2006 intergovernmental panel on climate change guidelines 
for national greenhouse gas inventories.
scope 1 emissions include on-site fuels used to craft jewellery, 
refrigerants to cool the crafting facilities, and fuel used in employee 
trams. fossil fuel volumes and refrigerant leakage volumes are multi-
plied by emissions factors from the uk department for environment, 
food and rural affairs (defra).
scope 2 emissions include the purchase of electricity and dis-
trict heating for offices, warehouses, crafting facilities and pandora 
owned stores. the emissions are calculated using the location-based 
approach. additionally, at the crafting facilities, a market-based 
approach is used in 2020 to take into account the purchase of renew-
able energy certificates to source all energy consumption that is not 
from renewable sources. where available, the electricity and district 
heating consumption from meter readings and invoices is used for 
crafting facilities, stores, distribution centers, and offices. where 
meter readings and invoices are not available, the consumption is 
estimated based off spend or size of the location. the electricity and 
district heating consumption is multiplied by iea emission factors for 
their respective countries to calculate the emissions. emissions from 
satellite offices with less than 30 people are omitted.
scope 3 emissions are reported based on the greenhouse gas 
protocol which divides the scope 3 inventory into 15 subcategories 
(c1-c15):
·  c1 – includes materials and services. where available, material 
volumes are multiplied by the life cycle assessment (lca) emission 
factors. if not available, spend amounts were used and multiplied by 
defra supply chain emission factors for spending on products. key 
lca's include:  
– mined and recycled silver co2e/kg: gabi database, 2019  
– mined gold co2e/kg: world gold council, 2018 
–  recycled gold co2e/kg: c. hafner, 2019. c1 also includes cate-
gorised spend amounts on services (e.g. media and marketing) 
multiplied by relevant supply chain emission factors for spending 
on products from defra. 
·  c2 – includes categorised spend data for machinery, fixtures and 
furniture, and other capital goods multiplied by relevant supply chain 
emission factors for spending on products from defra.
·  c3 – includes upstream ghg emissions from fossil fuels, heating, and 
electricity based on invoices used in our crafting facilities, stores, offic-
es, and distribution centers. emission factors from defra are used for 
fossil fuels and the iea for transmission and distribution losses.
·  c4 – includes inbound and outbound logistics, and transportation 
and distribution services conducted by third party logistics providers. 
a combination of supplier-specific and supply chain emission factors 
for spending on products from defra are used to calculate the 
emissions. emissions from other transport types are included in the 
emission factors used for purchased goods and services. the increase 
from 2019 to 2020 is a result of growth in  e-commerce business. 
·  c5 – includes waste volumes and spend amounts on waste services, 
multiplied by relevant emission factors from defra. 
·  c6 – includes spend amounts on car rental and travel expenses, 
multiplied by relevant emission factors from defra.
·  c7 – includes pandora employees commute from home to work. it 
is based on a trucost estimate from 2018 and the figure was revised 
in 2020 based on an updated estimation of employees working from 
home.
·  c8 – includes spend amounts on upstream leased cars, multiplied by 
relevant emission factors from defra.
·  c14 – electricity consumption for franchises is estimated based 
on the square meters of the franchises and the kwh/square meter 
average across pandora owned stores. the estimated electricity 
consumption is then multiplied by the corresponding iea country 
emission factor.
the subcategories c9-c13 and c15 are not relevant for pandora. 
sustainability  
data
51
51
annex
waste at crafting facilities
unit
2020
2019
2018
total waste
tonnes
6,970
6,248
7,071
hazardous waste (not recycled)
tonnes
22
17
9
industrial waste to landfill
tonnes
44
23
95
municipal waste to landfill
tonnes
618
685
837
recycled waste
tonnes
6,287
5,523
6,130
total recycled
recycled % 
90%
88%
87%
gypsum
recycled % 
100%
100%
99%
glass
recycled % 
100%
100%
100%
wax
recycled % 
100%
100%
100%
rubber
recycled % 
100%
100%
100%
water consumption  
at crafting facilities
unit
2020
2019
2018
water consumption 
m3
973,481
931,072
953,175
water recycled 
%
16%
14%
10%
energy consumption 
unit
2020
2019
2018
total energy consumption 
mwh
110,876
111,029
110,942
energy intensity 
mwh/revenue in dkk million
5.83
5.08
4.86
energy consumption, crafting facilities 
mwh
56,909
56,265
60,454
solar energy generated 
mwh
1,141
1,307
1,316
renewable energy certificates 
mwh
55,768
-
-
renewable energy at crafting facilities
% 
100%
2.4%
2.2%
environment
circular and sustainable jewellery
circular and sustainable jewellery
unit
2020
2019
2018
recycled silver and gold total 
%1
~60%
~60%
n/a
man-made stones 
%
>99%
>99%
>99%
total direct supplier spend audited  
by a third-party 
%
>99%
>95%
>85%
silver and gold grain suppliers certified  
by rjc/lbma
%
100%
100%
100%
product suppliers identified as having significant 
actual and potential negative  
social/environmental impacts with which 
improvements were agreed upon as  
a result of assessment.
social impact issues were 
found in 13 out of 15 factory 
locations, with a total of 108 
issues. 81 issues have been 
closed, 27 are in the process of 
being closed.
environmental issues were 
found in 9 out of 15 factory 
locations, with a total of 17 
issues. 12 have been closed, 5 
are in the process of being 
closed.
1  recycled silver and gold are precious metals that have been previously refined. our products may contain a fraction of silver or gold coming from cer-
tified but non-recycled sources due to difficulties in separating sources in the refining process. at pandora, we continuously work with our suppliers to 
fully remove the fraction of non-recycled sources.
52
52
annex
workplace and society
lost time injury frequency rate (ltifr)
unit
2020
2019
2018
crafting facilities
0.27
0.15
-
gender ratios (female / male)
unit
2020
2019
2018
total global office1
%
52% / 48%
-
-
full-time
%
51% / 49%
-
-
part-time
%
76% / 24%
-
-
total crafting facilities1
%
56% / 44%
-
-
full-time
%
56% / 44%
-
-
part-time
%
0% / 0%
-
-
executive leadership team
%
12.5% / 87.5%
9% / 91%
0%/ 100%
board of directors
%
75% / 25%
50% / 50%
43% / 57%
1  sufficient gender data is not available for the global organisation. pandora expects to deliver more transparent reporting on these parameters in the 
following year(s).
      2020
2019
2018
age split
unit
total
full-time
part-time
total global office
below 20 years
%
0.6%
0.4%
2.4%
-
-
20-29 years
%
20.6%
16.8%
82.9%
-
-
30-39 years
%
44.9%
47.2%
7.3%
-
-
40-49 years
%
25.0%
26.3%
2.4%
-
-
50-59 years
%
8.2%
8.7%
2.4%
-
-
60-69 years
%
0.7%
0.6%
2.4%
-
-
above 70 years
%
0.1%
0%
0%
-
-
total crafting facilities
below 20 years
%
0%
0%
0%
-
-
20-29 years
%
31.9%
31.9%
0%
-
-
30-39 years
%
63.4%
63.4%
0%
-
-
40-49 years
%
4.3%
4.3%
0%
-
-
50-59 years
%
0.3%
0.3%
0%
-
-
60-69 years
%
0%
0%
0%
-
-
above 70 years
%
0%
0%
0%
-
-
53
53
annex
workplace & society
employee turnover during  
the reporting period1 2 3
                   2020
2019
2018
rate in %
no.
total
26.0%
5,589
-
-
global office
20.5%
109
-
-
crafting facilities
2.5%
256
21.5% 
7.5% 
europe distribution centre
30.0%
41
-
-
thailand distribution centre
7.6%
2
-
-
global business services
16.3%
27
-
-
north america
58.1%
1,416
-
-
latin america
29.0%
301
-
-
pacific
43.5%
207
-
-
rest of asia
38.5%
163
-
-
china
45.9%
548
-
-
southern europe and mea
65.3%
775
-
-
western europe
57.3%
537
-
-
eastern europe
32.2%
156
-
-
northern europe
36.7%
545
-
-
british isles
38.0%
506
-
-
1  the reporting period is from march to december 2020.
2  the scope of data reporting includes retail, distribution, crafting and office employees. 
3  turnover rate for crafting facilities in 2019 includes number from the voluntary resignation programme.
collective bargaining 
agreements globally
unit
2020
2019
2018
employees covered
%
56%
-
-
employees by employment contract
unit
2020
2019
2018
total
no.
26,003
-
-
full-time
no.
19,097
-
-
part-time
no.
3,834
-
-
temporary
no.
3,102
-
-
global office1
no.
715
-
-
full-time
no.
674
-
-
part-time
no.
41
-
-
temporary
no.
-
-
-
crafting facilities1
no.
11,384
-
-
full-time
no.
11,384
-
-
part-time
no.
0
-
-
temporary
no.
-
-
-
europe distribution centre
no.
195
-
-
full-time
no.
134
-
-
part-time
no.
12
-
-
temporary
no.
49
-
-
thailand distribution centre
no.
36
-
-
full-time
no.
36
-
-
part-time
no.
0
-
-
temporary
no.
0
-
-
global business services
no.
203
-
-
full-time
no.
193
-
-
part-time
no.
0
-
-
temporary
no.
10
-
-
1  data on temporary employment contract is not available for global office and crafting facilities.
54
54
annex
workplace & society
employees by employment contract
unit
2020
2019
2018
north america
no.
3,565
-
-
full-time
no.
808
-
-
part-time
no.
1,575
-
-
temporary
no.
1,182
-
-
latin america
no.
1,334
-
-
full-time
no.
1,295
-
-
part-time
no.
39
-
-
temporary
no.
0
-
-
pacific
no.
662
-
-
full-time
no.
209
-
-
part-time
no.
87
-
-
temporary
no.
366
-
-
rest of asia
no.
468
-
-
full-time
no.
441
-
-
part-time
no.
4
-
-
temporary
no.
23
-
-
china
no.
1,385
-
-
full-time
no.
1,385
-
-
part-time
no.
0
-
-
temporary
no.
0
-
-
southern europe and mea
no.
1,709
-
-
full-time
no.
620
-
-
part-time
no.
480
-
-
temporary
no.
609
-
-
western europe
no.
1,357
-
-
full-time
no.
629
-
-
part-time
no.
385
-
-
temporary
no.
343
-
-
employees by employment contract
unit
2020
2019
2018
eastern europe
no.
604
-
-
full-time
no.
524
-
-
part-time
no.
61
-
-
temporary
no.
19
-
-
northern europe
no.
653
-
-
full-time
no.
232
-
-
part-time
no.
213
-
-
temporary
no.
208
-
-
british isles
no.
1,763
-
-
full-time
no.
533
-
-
part-time
no.
937
-
-
temporary
no.
293
-
-
we are restating the following kpis: 
scope 1 co2 emissions: restatement due to an 
underreporting of approximately 1000 tco2e in 2018 
and 2019, respectively. from 2020 actual leakage data 
was obtained. since this was significantly higher than 
the ipcc estimate used in 2018 and 2019, we have 
reassessed those leakage estimates and assumed that 
they were in line with 2020. 
scope 2 co2 emissions: restatement due to an 
over-reporting of approximately 25,000 tco2e and 
23,000 tco2e in 2018 and 2019, respectively, due to 
use of wrong emission factors in the retail footprint 
and switch to iea emission factors for our crafting 
facilities. 
water recycling rate: including additional buildings in 
bangkok.
waste at crafting facilities: improved data validation 
process.
water consumption at crafting facilities: improved 
data validation process.
recycled metals %: we have revised this percentage 
downwards as a result of our increased supplier engage-
ment and detailed supplier survey conducted in 2020.
55
55
annex
independent auditor’s  
limited assurance report
to the stakeholders of pandora
as agreed, we have examined selected environmental informa-
tion in pandora’s sustainability report 2020 (the sustainability 
report) for the period 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020. 
we are to conclude on whether the following information has 
been prepared in accordance with the reporting approach and 
criteria described on page 50  
 :
 • ‘scope 1’ for the reporting period 1 january to 31 december 
2020, as stated in section 'greenhouse gas emissions’ on page 50.
 • ‘scope 2’ for the reporting period 1 january to 31 december 
2020, as stated in section 'greenhouse gas emissions’ on page 50.
 • ‘scope 3’ for the reporting period 1 january to 31 december 
2020 with comparative information for the period 1 january 
to 31 december 2019, as stated in section 'greenhouse gas 
emissions’ on page 50. 
the degree of assurance expressed in the conclusion is limited.
management’s responsibility
pandora’s management is responsible for the preparation of 
the ‘scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions’ information in 
accordance with the global reporting initiative (gri) standards 
and pandora’s reporting approach and criteria (hereafter the re-
porting approach and criteria) described on page 50. pandora’s 
management is also responsible for such internal control, as the 
management considers necessary to enable the preparation 
of such information free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.
auditor’s responsibility
our responsibility is to express a conclusion on pandora’s 
‘scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions’ information on 
the basis of our procedures. we performed our procedures in 
accordance with isae 3000, “assurance engagements other 
than audits or reviews of historical financial information” and 
additional requirements under danish audit legislation to ob-
tain limited assurance for our conclusion.
ey godkendt revisionspartnerselskab is subject to the inter-
national standard on quality control (isqc) 1 and thus uses a 
comprehensive quality control system, documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards, applicable requirements in danish law and 
other regulations.
we complied with independence requirements and other 
ethical standards under fsr - danish auditors’ code of ethics 
for professional accountants, which rely on general principles 
regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 
due care, confidentiality and professional conduct. 
as part of our examination, we performed the below procedures:
 • interviews of relevant company professional responsible for 
the selected information located at pandora’s headquarter in 
copenhagen
 • analytical reviews procedures, including trend analyses, of 
data supplied by pandora compared to prior period
 • review of the appropriateness of accounting policies applied 
by management 
we believe that our procedures provide a reasonable basis for 
our conclusion. the procedures performed in connection with 
our examination are less than those performed in connection 
with a reasonable assurance engagement. consequently, the 
degree of assurance for our conclusion is substantially less than 
the assurance, which would be obtained, had we performed a 
reasonable assurance engagement.
conclusion
based on the procedures performed and the evidence ob-
tained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the selected environmental information regarding 
‘scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions’ for pandora for 
the period 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 have not 
been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
reporting approach and criteria described on page 50.  
 
copenhagen, 28 april 2021 
ey godkendt revisions- 
partnerselskab
cvr-nr. 30 70 02 28
carina ohm
associate partner
nordic head of climate 
change and sustainability 
services
mikkel sthyr
state authorised 
public accountant
mne no.: mne26693
56
56
chapter title
pandora a/s
havneholmen 17-19
dk-1561 copenhagen v
denmark
phone: +45 36720044
cvr no.: 28505116
www.pandoragroup.com
design: 
kontrapunkt
photography: 
kristian holm, michael mundy,  
peter elmholt, ture andersen, 
unicef and pandora
