competent
responsive
proper
sustainability 
and social responsibility  
esg report 2020
ringkjøbing landbobank faced very 
special demands in 2020 in order to  
maintain the balance between our four 
most important stakeholders:
• customers
• employees
• society
• shareholders
like everyone else, we have been strongly affected by 
covid-19. in march and april we could not know how big an 
impact the virus would have, but we knew that it would hit 
many others harder than ringkjøbing landbobank. 
therefore, at an early stage we decided, and have
implemented, a number of initiatives to support our 
customers and other partners:
• we have stayed in close contact with our business cus-
tomers and functioned as their sparring partner regarding 
the government’s aid packages and covid-19 loans
• we have offered our personal customers the possibility 
of skipping loan payments
• we have renewed our sponsorship agreements and paid 
in advance even though many of our partners have been 
unable to carry out their usual activities
• we have paid our bills on receipt and moved construction 
work forward
• we have supported local media in west, central and 
north jutland by placing advertisements with them as 
an exceptional measure, in response to appeals from a 
number of mayors
so far we have been affected less than feared but the
situation is still uncertain. we are looking ahead, however, 
and continue our sustainability efforts working with 
environmental (e), social (s) and governance (g) aspects 
– work for which we enjoy extensive support from all four 
stakeholder groups.
customers
in ringkjøbing landbobank we strive to integrate  
sustainability throughout our business model – not least 
in the areas of investment and lending.
for many years we have cultivated niches that support 
green transition. the distinctive feature of a niche in 
ringkjøbing landbobank is that we have studied the area 
in detail. this enables us to show responsiveness, integrity 
and expertise in our advice. we have built relationships with 
national and international partners, which has increased our 
capacity to participate in financing investments in renewable 
energy production. as early as 1995, we financed wind 
turbines, which have developed into an important business 
area for the bank. later we built expertise in solar cell and 
biogas plants and have lent increasing sums to them. 
in the area of investments ringkjøbing landbobank works 
closely with bankinvest, which launched two nordic swan 
ecolabelled funds in 2020: globale aktier bæredygtig 
udvikling and globale obligationer bæredygtig udvikling 
(global equities sustainable development and global 
bonds sustainable development). interest has been over-
whelming. at the end of 2020, more than dkk 8.5 billion 
had been invested in the equity fund and the bond fund also 
had a very satisfactory start. 
in the area of annuities and personal insurance, ringkjøbing 
landbobank works with letpension, which is planning the 
launch of a climate-friendly savings product in 2021. we 
look forward to offering this product to our customers.
employees
at the end of 2020, we were training 28 apprentices and 
trainees – and besides that we generate a substantial  
number of knowledge-based jobs in our local areas. 
employees in ringkjøbing landbobank develop expertise 
through further training – in partnership with finans- 
sektorens uddannelsescenter (the financial sector’s  
training centre), aarhus and aalborg universities, local 
business academies, upper secondary schools etc.
society
ringkjøbing landbobank's goal is to be carbon-neutral. we 
are carbon-neutral now, because we own sæbygård skov 
forest. its annual growth captures approximately five times 
more carbon dioxide than the bank emits.
ringkjøbing landbobank’s esg report 2020
introduction
john fisker 
ceo of 
ringkjøbing 
landbobank.
2      ringkjøbing landbobank
rating agencies assessing the sustainability of businesses 
normally only accept carbon sequestration in forestry 
projects if they are certified under a un-approved standard. 
sæbygård skov is not, which is why we have decided to 
supplement its role by buying climate credits equalling 
300 tonnes of carbon. 
as a strong local bank, we have always been conscious of 
our importance to the local communities in west, central 
and north jutland and are happy to shoulder this responsi-
bility. in our advice, we place greater emphasis than ever on 
sustainability – including improvements to energy efficiency. 
we support replacement of oil and gas burners throughout 
denmark, and on landbobanken.dk our personal customers 
can find inspiration for energy savings through totalkredit’s 
energy calculator. we finance investments in local business 
development and support more than 1,400 local clubs, 
associations, initiatives and events. 
in 2020, ringkjøbing landbobank’s board of directors en-
dorsed the 25 recommendations for anti-money laundering 
and counter-terrorist financing measures. the recommen-
dations were the result of the work of finance denmark’s 
anti-money laundering task force in late 2019. the bank 
spends substantial resources on combating money-laun-
dering and financing of terrorism. in addition, we make 
a substantial contribution to society at national level by 
solving a range of tasks, e.g. in tax reporting and digitali- 
sation and as one of denmark’s 100 biggest taxpayers.  
we are therefore disappointed that a majority in the danish 
parliament, the folketinget, has decided to levy a surtax on 
the financial sector which means that we will pay higher 
income tax than other private-sector businesses from 2023.
shareholders
ringkjøbing landbobank’s business model must be robust 
and sustainable for all our stakeholders. this is a precon- 
dition for generating a satisfactory return on our share- 
holders’ investments. we believe we have succeeded and 
look forward to continue working along this path.
reporting
ringkjøbing landbobank supports the 15 esg key figures 
defined by nasdaq copenhagen, the danish finance  
society and fsr – danish auditors to make data  
comparable across industries and sectors.
on the following pages, which constitute ringkjøbing 
landbobank’s second esg report, you will find the status 
of these key figures for 2020 and much more about sustain- 
able banking operations. the bank’s esg effort is a process 
and it is now up to you to judge how far we have come. 
happy reading!
contents
introduction
this esg report is also the statutory statement on corporate social 
responsibility for 2020. the bank’s annual report for 2020 contains a 
reference to the esg report, which covers the financial reporting period 
1 january to 31 december 2020.
the esg report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of section 
135 of the executive order on financial reports for credit institutions 
and investment firms etc. it should be seen in correlation with the bank’s 
social responsibility policy, which is reviewed annually and approved by 
the bank’s board of directors. the latest edition of the policy was  
approved by the board of directors on 16 december 2020 and is  
available at landbobanken.com.
ringkjøbing landbobank merged with nordjyske bank on 8 june 2018. 
since 2018 was not a full year of operation for the merged bank, 
comparative key figures for 2018 have not been stated, unless they are 
end-of-year figures. 
photo on cover and back: solar cell plant erected by nørhede-hjortmose 
solenergi i/s.
introduction 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s esg report 2020 .................... 2-3
presentation 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s business model ........................ 4
facts about the bank ............................................................ 4
investment, pension and it operation
new eu-wide rules on transparency regarding
sustainability ......................................................................... 5
bankinvest  ......................................................................... 6-7
letpension  ............................................................................ 8
bankdata and jn data  ......................................................... 9
environment 
focus, activities, principal activity and objectives  ...... 10-11
environment – key figures  ................................................. 12
energy calculator and green car loan .................................13
cases  ............................................................................. 14-16
environment / social aspects 
cases ....................................................................................17
sæbygård skov forest ................................................... 18-19
social aspects 
focus, activities, principal activity and objectives  .....  20-21
social aspects – key figures  ............................................. 22
employees ...................................................................... 24-25
cases  ............................................................................  26-27
governance 
focus, activities, principal activity and objectives  .....  28-29
governance – key figures  .................................................. 30
definitions of esg key figures 
environment, social aspects and governance .................. 31
3
ringkjøbing landbobank’s business model is based on 
close relationships with our customers, responsible lending 
and a high level of expertise combined with efficient 
business processes. we focus both on being a local bank in 
west, central and north jutland and on being a niche bank 
within selected segments throughout denmark.
the bank has a two-brand strategy with a joint logo: 
a flaming torch and two monograms: “nordjyske bank” in 
north jutland and “ringkjøbing landbobank” in the rest of 
denmark. 
in accordance with our social responsibility policy, we want 
to be a responsible and value-creating bank that shows 
social responsibility.
we do this by creating good, long-term results for our 
shareholders and by contributing to creating a sustainable 
society, focusing on customers, employees, climate, the 
environment and society – locally as well as nationally. it is 
also our goal to be seen as a reliable and attentive partner 
among all our stakeholders.
as a relationship bank, we see it as our responsibility to 
provide competent and attentive advice to personal as 
well as business customers – irrespective of distance. our 
distance customer concept is based on close relationships 
through video, phone and email and we strive to ensure that 
our distance customers experience the same attentiveness 
from their personal adviser, and can feel the same 
attachment, as local customers. 
the bank bases its operations on the values:
• competent
• responsive
• proper
ringkjøbing landbobanks business model
presentation
facts about the bank
24
branches
203,547
customers
612
full-time employees
end of 2020
dkk billion
loans
36.2
deposits including
pooled schemes
39.6
equity
8.1
value of customer 
custody accounts
54.8
mortgage loans arranged
49.0
end of 2020
4      ringkjøbing landbobank
lars bo bertram, 
ceo of bankinvest
in 2021, financial institutions – including ringkjøbing 
landbobank – will face new requirements. we are now 
required to disclose the following to our investment 
customers:
• information on sustainability risks before entering into  
an agreement
• policy for integration of sustainability risks
• information on adverse sustainability impacts at entity 
level
• integration of sustainability risks in the remuneration 
policy 
the reason is a new eu regulation which is part of the 
european commission’s action plan on financing of 
sustainable growth. the purpose is to ensure investors get 
what they expect when making green investments. or in 
other words to create transparency regarding sustainability 
and prevent greenwashing in investments. the corpus of 
legislation deals with what makes an activity green and 
what investment managers and banks must disclose.
ringkjøbing landbobank’s business partner bankinvest 
also closely monitors the work on the regulation, and 
bankinvest’s ceo lars bo bertram expects that it will 
significantly affect investment managers and banks. 
- the eu initiative has a direct influence on advice 
to customers and for this reason, it will significantly 
engage the entire sector. we expect the changes 
for investment managers and financial institutions 
to be the biggest since the implementation of the 
mifid directive some years ago, says bertram.
the new eu regulation contains a complete set of rules 
and ringkjøbing landbobank and its partners are currently 
setting up the internal processes necessary to meet the 
new disclosure requirements.
  
new eu-wide rules on transparency regarding sustainability
investment
esg report 2020      5
green transition needs financing and investment clients 
are asking for sustainable investment products. eu, in the 
person of the new commission president ursula von der 
leyen, has taken charge of redirecting capital towards 
green transition. investment is thus without doubt the area 
where the financial sector can contribute the most to  
sustainable development. 
bankinvest
ringkjøbing landbobank has worked with bankinvest for 
many years. with an ownership interest of more than 22%, 
the bank is bankinvest’s biggest shareholder, and ceo  
john fisker is deputy chairman of its board of directors.
bankinvest is owned by 36 danish financial institutions 
and has dkk 115 billion under management. the majority 
comes from around 210,000 private investors. in 2020, 
bankinvest increased speed in sustainable development:
• the association launched two nordic swan ecolabelled 
funds containing equities and bonds respectively
• in 27 of the total of 45 funds, sustainability is monitored 
continuously in the form of the quarterly sustainability 
impact report 
• the association was elected best esg responsible 
investor in denmark by the london-based financial 
journal cfi.co
investment
the nordic swan ecolabelled funds from ringkjøbing landbobank’s 
partner bankinvest are a great success
mads berendt 
søndergaard, 
head of responsible 
investments
of bankinvest. 
nordic swan ecolabelled funds
- the two nordic swan ecolabelled funds were 
launched to give investors a robust, sustainable and 
transparent investment alternative, says mads 
berendt søndergaard, head of responsible invest-
ments at bankinvest, and continues:
- the equities fund was launched before the 
summer break and by the end of 2020 already 
had more than dkk 8.5 billion under 
management. this is much higher than the 
dkk 2 billion or so we expected in the
investment association’s first year. the bond 
fund was launched in october and also had
a very satisfactory start.
nordic swan ecolabelling imposes a number of ‘dos’ 
and ‘don’ts’ on investment funds and therefore on the 
equities fund. the equities fund don’t invest in fossil 
fuels, tobacco and weapons.
on the other hand the equities fund do invest in 
shares with a strong responsibility profile. the 
bankinvest fund meets this requirement, as it is 
positioned comfortably above the world market.
- the bond fund invests in government, mortgage and 
corporate bonds, says berendt. 
- but we have defined the investment profile to avoid 
investing in almost 50% of the market. for example, 
we have not invested in us government bonds 
during the time of the us withdrawal from the paris 
agreement. similarly, we do not invest in chinese 
government bonds because of the chinese rule’s 
questionable attitude to human rights. what the fund 
does invest in are green bonds that directly finance 
the green transition.
bankinvest has decided to make the two nordic 
swan ecolabelled funds carbon-neutral. at less than 
50% of the market index, the two funds’ carbon 
emissions are already low. the remainder was 
compensated for in 2020 by buying climate credits 
equivalent to the actual emissions from the assets in 
which the funds invest, and this will continue. 
6      ringkjøbing landbobank
best esg responsible investor
in denmark
- bankinvest gained a high profile for its 
sustainable initiatives in 2020, says ceo 
lars bo bertram.
bankinvest was elected best esg responsible
investor in denmark by the london-based financial 
journal cfi.co. 
- it’s primarily a good signal creating visibility and that 
is something we notice in bankinvest. external stake-
holders use us increasingly as sustainability experts.
sustainability impact
each quarter bankinvest publishes a sustainability 
impact report measuring the sustainability of the 
individual funds in terms of carbon emission, esg 
score and contribution to the un sustainable
development goals. the association has now 
presented the sustainability impact of 27 of the total 
of 45 funds, equivalent to 60% compared to 40% in 
2019. the equity portion of the optima funds has 
now been included. the long-term plan is to include 
all of the association’s funds.
- the sustainability impact report creates 
transparency to ringkjøbing landbobank’s 
customers. in future, failure to act sustainably 
will be regarded increasingly as an 
investment risk, says mads berendt.
of the investment fund certificates ringkjøbing 
landbobank had under management including in 
pooled schemes on 31 december 2020, 88.2% was 
invested in funds with a sustainability impact, 
compared to 64.5% the year before.
lars bo bertram, 
ceo of bankinvest.
the sustainability impact report is designed as a two-page summary of each fund.
great emphasis has been placed on making the summary as clear and concrete as possible.
investment
esg report 2020      7
climate-friendly annuities in the pipeline from letpension
letpension is an intermediary of annuity pension and 
insurance cover of illness and death for personal  
customers. since 2010, the company has worked with the 
pension company pfa, which owns letpension together 
with 22 financial institutions, including ringkjøbing  
landbobank. ringkjøbing landbobank’s ceo john fisker is 
chairman of the company.
- the partnership between the financial institutions and pfa 
is a big success, says ceo lars stouge and continues:
- in the last three years, letpension has doubled its 
sales to personal customers and we expect to do 
even better in the coming five-year strategy period. 
letpension distributes pension and insurance 
products to more than 400,000 personal customers 
with more than 600,000 policies. in 2020, almost 
dkk 5 billion was paid into annuities and insurance 
products.
letpension is planning to launch a climate-friendly annuity 
in partnership with pfa. it will place extra emphasis on the 
environment and no investments will be made i.e. in oil and 
coal businesses. the product’s emphasis on climate means 
a very limited investment universe and consequently a 
narrower portfolio. nonetheless, in the long term, both risk 
and return expectations will be as in a standard portfolio.
- we are currently carrying out a preliminary analysis and 
a project organisation has to be established. so we don’t 
know exactly when the product will be ready in the banks, 
but we expect it to be in 2021, says stouge. 
the goal is that the portfolio will be carbon-neutral in 2025 
and from 2030, it will be carbon-negative. 
- it’s up to the customers, of course. the product  
is for customers who go in for green transition. 
and it’s possible to go all-in if they want to.
most will probably steer a middle course.
- we are seeing demand for climate-friendly savings from 
society, authorities, businesses and customers. it’s no 
secret that ringkjøbing landbobank is putting on some 
pressure – perhaps because the bank has been working 
in this area for a long time. after all, it has financed wind 
turbines for more than 20 years, concludes stouge.
lars stouge, 
ceo of letpension.
pension
8      ringkjøbing landbobank
ringkjøbing landbobank works with bankdata on it  
development and operation. bankdata, in turn, has  
outsourced actual it operations to jn data. this partner-
ship means indirect energy consumption for the bank.
one of bankdata’s focus areas in sustainability is to  
increase the number of women in it jobs, says manager 
lene weldum:
- first, teams with a more or less equal number of 
each gender produce the best result. second, the 
reason women often do not choose to work with it 
is a misunderstanding of what it really is. in our 
experience, it is at least as appealing to women as
to men if they give it a chance.
lene weldum adds that bankdata also strives to give  
minority groups and newly qualified applicants a foothold 
on the labour market. 
- as a major business we must also help make danish 
society work. a part of that is to create jobs for all kinds of 
people. a particular obligation is to help young people get 
their first jobs, even though we as much as anybody dream 
of employing a 28-year-old with 10 years’ experience.
bankdata’s focus areas 
in its sustainability work, bankdata focuses in
particular on:
• reduction of energy consumption
• utilisation of waste heat
• elimination of paper waste
• more digital meetings – less spend on transport
• reduction of plastic consumption
• more women in it jobs
• better opportunities for minority groups on the 
labour market
partnership with bankdata and jn data
marked reduction in electricity consumption
jn data is responsible for operating the it systems 
and in that role it accounts for the biggest part of 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s indirect energy 
consumption. for many years, jn data has focused 
on how to reduce this substantial consumption, in 
particular through server virtualisation. the result is 
a marked reduction in the number of physical 
servers and consequently the electricity 
consumption for servers and cooling. in addition, 
jn data supplies excess heat to the district heating 
network corresponding to the heating consumption 
of 400 – 500 households. 
lene weldum, 
manager of 
bankdata.
it operation
esg report 2020      9
ringkjøbing landbobank wants to limit its impact on the environment
and provide finance for the green transition
environment
• continuous focus on reducing our resource consumption 
• regular assessment and prioritisation of the possibilities 
of alternative and energy-saving initiatives in the bank
• increasing our employees’ environmental awareness 
• continuing to develop our loans for climate-friendly and 
renewable energy – including wind turbines, solar cells, 
biogas and other environmentally friendly technologies
• reducing our customers’ environmental impact through 
access to totalkredit’s energy calculator, providing 
relevant home ownership advice and granting loans to 
improve energy efficiency
• ringkjøbing landbobank uses a new solution from 
bankdata which emails prints generated automatically 
from the systems to the user in pdf format or sends 
them directly to the customer’s earkiv digital archive 
this has reduced paper waste for this type of prints to 0
• ringkjøbing landbobank expects both personal and  
business customers to sign documents electronically 
unless otherwise expressly agreed
• the bank continuously focuses on optimising its case 
handling procedures and processes through digitalisation 
– including online meetings – and the use of it robots 
• collaboration with the danish green investment fund, 
ekf – denmark’s export credit agency, the danish 
growth fund, the nordic investment bank, kfw and 
others to ensure financing of profitable and sustainable 
projects
• the bank only buys electricity from wind turbines
• the bank has decided to buy climate credits to neutralise 
our own carbon emissions
• energy consumption in the bank’s premises is reduced by 
using led lighting and motion sensors
• the bank carries out waste sorting
• the bank continuously replaces ventilation and cooling 
systems to recover heat where possible
• the bank gives high priority to holding virtual meetings 
with its customers, close partners like bankdata and 
bankinvest, and not least between employees of the 
bank’s different branches
• the bank encourages its employees to share cars to the 
extent possible when travelling for training, meetings etc.
activities
focus
in accordance with our social responsibility policy, we strive 
to reduce our own negative effect on the environment, 
increasing our employees’ environmental awareness and 
particularly continuing to grant loans to climate-friendly and 
sustainable energy. 
in-house this includes major and minor activities to ensure 
that everyone can help make a difference. 
forum for sustainable finance’s 20 
recommendations
ringkjøbing landbobank supports forum for 
sustainable finance’s 20 recommendations on how 
the financial sector can accelerate the sustainable 
transition of the economy. we support sustainability 
in our business by being carbon-neutral, only buying 
electricity from wind turbines and otherwise.  
a significant part of our loans go to industries that 
are particularly relevant for the sustainable transition 
– including financing of wind turbines, solar cell and 
biogas plants.
the green leaf is a new label 
showing that ringkjøbing 
landbobank buys electricity 
from renewable energy sources
– in this case wind.
10      ringkjøbing landbobank
loans for renewable energy production 
and reduction of energy consumption
since 1995 ringkjøbing landbobank has worked with loans 
for wind turbines as a niche, and this is now one of the 
bank’s important business areas. loans for biogas plants 
are growing strongly at present and we also provide loans 
for solar cell farms and other energy projects.
 
we encourage our personal customers to use totalkredit’s 
energy calculator to get inspiration for concrete energy 
improvements in the home and we look favourably on loan 
applications for this.
 
over the years ringkjøbing landbobank has built close 
relationships with danish, scandinavian and european 
partners on loans for green investments. these relation-
ships have given access to competitive financing which we 
make available to our customers. our collaboration with 
these partners contributes to strengthening our business 
case and supports society’s transition to being more 
sustainable. 
financing the production of climate-friendly energy and 
minimising the bank’s own environmental impact are also 
high priorities looking forward. our focus includes:
• continued financing of investments in wind, solar and 
biogas projects etc.
• perceiving green transition as an opportunity for 
continued growth in the bank’s lending
• reducing the energy consumption in the individual 
branches – including by installing led lighting and 
motion sensors in more rooms
• neutralising the bank’s co2 scope 1 and scope 2 emissions
• identifying and carrying out profitable insulation projects 
in the bank’s older buildings
• optimising case handling procedures through  
digitalisation and the use of robots
• holding as many meetings as possible virtually
• retention and expansion of our relationships with 
national and international partners for the financing of 
profitable and sustainable projects for the benefit of our 
customers and society
principal activity
goals
environment
“
... we have built relationships
with national and international 
partners, which has increased our 
capacity to participate in financing
investments in renewable energy
production.
john fisker, adm. ceo  
ringkjøbing landbobank
collaboration on 
financing of biogas 
plants etc.
collaboration on 
funding of renewable 
energy projects.
collaboration on 
back-to-back funding 
of renewable energy 
projects.
collaboration on 
financing of danish 
wind turbines
abroad etc.
collaboration on financing of 
growth businesses contributing 
to the green transition etc.
our partners include:
esg report 2020      11
environment – key figures
esg key figures 1
2019
2020
co2, scope 1 emissions
29.2 tonnes
63.0 tonnes
co2, scope 2 emissions
307.4 tonnes
210.9 tonnes
total co2, scope 1 and 2 emissions
336.6 tonnes
273.9 tonnes
co2 sequestration by buying gold standard climate credits
300.0 tonnes
the annual growth of sæbygaard skov forest is calculated to sequester carbon of
1,417.0 tonnes
ringkjøbing landbobank is carbon-neutral both by means of compensation through climate credits and by including
the carbon sequestration of sæbygård skov forest
energy consumption
19,583 gj
18,385 gj
renewable energy share
69.0 %
71.5 %
water consumption
5,098 m3
5,254 m3
other key figures
2019
2020
documents digitally signed by personal customers  
– % of all documents for personal customers   
81.1 %
83.3 %
documents digitally signed by business customers 
– % of all documents for business customers
58.4 %
62.7 %
end of 2018
end of 2019
end of 2020
loans for renewable energy (wind, solar and biogas) 
– % of net loans and guarantees 
6.8 %
6.7 %
7.2 %
1  the bank’s calculation of emissions and consumption does not include indirect emissions and consumption at bankdata and jn data.
ringkjøbing landbobank is
carbon-neutral
12
energy calculator – inspiration for energy
savings in detached houses
loan for an environmentally- 
friendly car on favourable terms
energy consumption in buildings accounts for almost 40% of denmark’s 
carbon emissions. therefore we must focus our attention on housing 
if denmark is to achieve its target of reducing carbon emissions by at 
least 70% by 2030. 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s personal customers can find inspiration for 
energy saving projects in the home on landbobanken.dk, which 
includes a link to totalkredit’s energy calculator.
 
the energy calculator is quite easy to use. you just enter your address, 
and the energy calculator does the rest. the calculations are based on 
data from the danish energy agency – including the property’s energy 
rating – and the central register of buildings and dwellings (bbr). it 
is possible to amend the data if, for example, improvements in energy 
efficiency have been carried out and not been recorded in bbr. the 
calculator gives a clear indication if it cannot find any recommen- 
dations that will pay for themselves in the short term. but in any case 
you should use the calculator’s recommendations as inspiration – and 
only inspiration – for possible energy improvements, which must be 
planned and budgeted for professionally. 
the calculation is completed with an application form, which you can 
send to ringkjøbing landbobank for an offer of a loan for the energy 
improvements.
replace your oil burner with a heat pump and get a dkk 10,000 subsidy
besides placing the energy calculator at your disposal, totalkredit is also giving 3,000 customers a subsidy of  
dkk 10,000 to replace their oil burners with a heat pump. all it requires is that you do not live in an area with district 
heating, and that you are a customer with one of the totalkredit's financial partner-institutions. this scheme is 
therefore also available to customers of ringkjøbing landbobank. the scheme started in december 2020 and will 
continue until 3,000 customers have been granted a subsidy. 
in late 2020, ringkjøbing landbobank 
decided to support the changeover to more 
environmentally-friendly personal transport 
with a new, green, low-interest car loan.
the loan is made upon down-payment of at 
least 20% and on the same terms as ordinary 
car loans, but with a discount of 1 percentage 
point per annum. 
the loan is limited to financing of electric, 
hydrogen and plug-in hybrid vehicles that can 
be recharged from a charging station. 
- the loan should be seen as our 
contribution towards getting 700,000 
environmentally-friendly cars on danish 
roads before 2030, says lars knudsen, 
who is personal customers manager in 
ringkjøbing landbobank.
calculation example.
lars knudsen, personal customers manager
in ringkjøbing landbobank.
environment
esg report 2020      13
cases
financing of 
biogas plants
nature energy – a green future with biogas
nature energy produces large quantities of biogas, and the 
company’s biogas plants are among the largest in the world.  
- we collect biodegradable waste from the whole 
community – from both private households, 
industry and agriculture, says ceo ole hvelplund, 
and continues:
- as one of the world’s largest producers of biogas, it is 
important that we lead from the front and work towards 
industrialisation and greater professionalism in the biogas 
sector. this helps the green transition, where biogas  
contributes to a reduction of carbon emissions. if we are 
to achieve the target of a 70% reduction in carbon by 2030, 
then it is imperative that we invest in green technologies 
that can give effective carbon savings right now. we can do 
this with biogas.
the biodegradable waste is stored in large tanks, where it 
is degassed. nature energy has enough capacity to treat 
5 million tonnes of biodegradable waste per annum. this 
is converted to 200 million m3 of biogas, which is enough 
fuel to power more than 10,000 lorries each driving 50,000 
km a year. the waste product from this process is used as 
agricultural fertilizer, so all nutrients are recirculated. 
- we have a clear concept for the construction of large, 
state-of-the-art biogas plants. by building many plants  
using the same design we can bring costs down. and it is 
not just denmark that has a huge biogas potential. this is 
also true for the rest of europe and north america. in other 
words, we expect that nature energy is on the threshold of 
a great export adventure, says ole hvelplund.
ringkjøbing landbobank is a financial partner
- we have a really good collaboration with ringkjøbing 
landbobank; they’ve been the company’s financial partner 
since the start of 2018. in its collaboration with the green 
investment fund, the bank has financed all of our current 
or projected biogas plants in denmark, and throughout this 
time ringkjøbing landbobank has shown itself to be both 
flexible, positive and competent, states ole hvelplund.
ceo ole hvelplund in front of 
nature energy’s plant in glansager, 
near sønderborg.
environment
14      ringkjøbing landbobank
pig breeder and environmentalist
morten glenthøj is a pig breeder, but sees himself also 
as an environmentalist who leads the way for agricultural 
ambitions of green transition. he owns and runs a biogas 
plant which ringkjøbing landbobank financed an exten-
sion of, and which reduces carbon emissions from his 
production by 70%.
- i needed a financial partner who understands my 
business, so that i don’t have to start from scratch 
at each meeting. the bank was able to provide a 
team of specialists who are dedicated to financing 
sustainable energy projects. 
- of course, the requirements for collaboration were that 
the bank should be competitive. with the fulfilment of this 
criterion, the final decision was made based on ‘softer’ or 
green parameters:
• ringkjøbing landbobank was ahead of the rest when 
it came to understanding. it was clear that this was not 
the first time the bank was financing a biogas plant,  
and the bank evidently believe there is a future for  
sustainable energy.
• ringkjøbing landbobank proved to be a financial partner 
that wants to be involved in any further development 
requiring more capital. therefore size and strength are 
also important criteria – there are significant sums of 
money at stake.
morten glenthøj has worked with biogas in denmark since 
2017. the next step will hopefully be to use that last 30% 
of the carbon emissions for liquid fuel or fertilisation. but 
this assumes that ringkjøbing landbobank is ready with 
new funds!
cases
facts about 
nature energy
nature energy’s plant produces 
biogas comprising 60% methane and 
40% co2. 
the sustainable methane is pumped 
into the gas network while the co2 
can be utilised in the so-called 
power-to-x process and be converted 
to more green energy. the co2 can 
also benefit the food industry.
for example, nature energy delivers 
co2 to strandmøllen a/s, who use a 
new plant in korskro to produce up to 
25% of denmark’s requirement of co2 
for food production. so maybe the 
bubbles in your soda come from your 
own biodegradable waste!
farm animal manure is used to 
produce biogas
according to the trade organisation biogas 
denmark, 20% of manure produced by danish farm 
animals is used to produce biogas, which supplies 
20% of danish gas consumption, so there is a 
huge potential to work with. savings in co2 are 
70% compared with spreading the fertilizer on the 
fields. in addition, the waste product is a higher 
quality fertilizer and 95% of the odour is gone.
understanding 
and
development
biogas plant (model photo).
morten glenthøj in front
of his biogas plant.
environment
esg-rapport 2020      15
nørhede-hjortmose solenergi i/s
nørhede-hjortmose solenergi was five years old at the 
end of 2020. this age is easy to remember, says managing 
partner karsten sandal.
- we had to be ready in time for new year’s day 2015 in 
order to achieve the agreed price paid to electricity  
producers, so we had three months to procure 68,000 solar 
panels from asia. we had to be certain they could function, 
there had to be a letter of credit, the panels had to be  
transported to denmark and erected, we had to raise equity 
and lastly, we had to take out a shared loan. once such 
a plant is operating, it is easy to be a bank, but until then, 
there are a lot of loose ends to tie up.
- ringkjøbing landbobank was really helpful. 
they managed the letter of credit and the project 
finances and, along the way, contributed to the 
management process at a vast number of status 
meetings online. it was a good thing they were 
involved at the management level.
- we probably wouldn’t have got the money if we’d just 
shown up at the cashier’s desk, concludes karsten sandal.
the solar power farm is owned by 10 local partners and 
produces 17 gw of electricity a year. it covers 26 hectares 
and meets the needs of 4,000 households. this equates 
to 2.5% of the total electricity consumption throughout 
ringkøbing-skjern municipality.
purchase rights scheme
when a wind or solar power developer establishes a plant with a contract for price surcharge, then 20% of the project 
must be offered to the local residents in the municipality at cost price if the planning permission was granted before 
1 june 2020. the objective is to encourage the commitment of the local community to the extension of onshore wind 
turbines and solar energy farms. this includes increasing the local interest in and support of establishing new, modern 
wind turbines and solar power farms.  
ringkjøbing landbobank supports the idea of local residents owning a share in these projects. the bank has therefore 
provided funds over a number of years for the local residents’ purchases of shares in wind and solar power. in addition 
to finance, the bank naturally offers advice about investing in the projects.
responsiveness 
in management
cases
karsten sandal, managing partner, 
nørhede-hjortmose solenergi i/s.
environment
16      ringkjøbing landbobank
the blue trail vonå
in 2020 the experience universe, naturkraft opened just 
outside ringkøbing after an investment of dkk 300 million. 
naturkraft’s objective is to inform about the forces of 
nature, both inside and outside the centre itself.
- the thought behind the blue trail project came 
from the fact that the river vonå runs right by 
naturkraft, so it is possible to sail from ringkøbing 
harbour and visit the centre, says hans christian 
vestergaard, who is chairman of ringkøbing 
development forum.
 
vonå connects ringkøbing fjord with stadil fjord and is 
frequently used by sailors and anglers – but not many others, 
as both banks are densely covered by reeds. 
- both ringkøbing development forum and naturkraft can 
see possibilities in making the unique natural area more 
accessible. we want to improve the waterway and make 
the area available to others apart from sailors, continues 
hans christian vestergaard.
ringkøbing development forum took on the major  
responsibility for the task and set up a steering group. 
it was quickly agreed that there was a need to define a  
project which would be the subject of an application to  
the danish foundation for culture and sports facilities. 
therefore an approach was made to the danish-icelandic 
architect company, krads, who delivered a complete pre-
sentation and application to the foundation in august 2019.
- ringkjøbing landbobank has been a great help in this 
work. the bank paid half of the fees for the project  
description, which created a fantastic foundation for getting 
naturkraft, ringkøbing development forum and further 
sponsors to finance the other half. in addition, ringkjøbing 
landbobank were also involved in voluntary work and as 
the host for meetings etc. concludes vestergaard.
the project description comprises five sub-projects, which 
all aim at improving the accessibility of the area – but on 
nature’s terms. the first sub-project is already out to tender, 
and one of the others concerns renovation of the gammel 
sommerlyst, which used to be a popular dance restaurant 
and meeting place for people from ringkøbing coming by 
boat. rumour has it that many citizens in ringkøbing owe 
their existence to this location, and the town would dearly 
like to have more residents ...
the chairman for ringkøbing
development forum hans 
christian vestergaard (r) with 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s head 
of marketing klaus gamst (l).
support for
local 
development
a unique trail
an increasing number of trails is being created in 
denmark, but the ‘blue trail’ is unique. this is the 
name of the project, which aims at creating an open 
waterway connection between ringkøbing fjord and 
stadil fjord – namely, vonå. it is precisely in this 
area, influenced as it is by the sea, fjords, streams, 
canals, etc. that it is natural to create not just an 
ordinary trail, but a waterway trail – a blue trail. 
cases
environment / social aspects
esg report 2020      17
environment / social aspects
when ringkjøbing landbobank merged with nordjyske 
bank in 2018, the new bank became owner of sæbygård 
skov. the forest belonged to nordjyske bank, which was 
thinking of selling it. but these plans have been discarded 
by the bank, because the forest is able to sequestrate 
carbon and it offers recreational opportunities to local  
residents, says bank general manager claus andersen.
- over 60% of the forest consists of deciduous trees, 
primarily beech trees. selective forestry of the deciduous 
area is being carried out and the renewal of the woodland 
is largely done naturally, which will improve diversity of the 
tree species. with a prudent strategy of targeted thinning 
out, the mixture of trees of various ages will ensure a 
burgeoning growth of the forest stand for many years to 
come, which means that the forest will sequestrate 
increasing quantities of carbon. 
andersen says that a large number of the beech trees are 
80 to 100 years old. 
- this might seem quite old, but for a beech tree, it 
is the best and most productive age. this ensures 
the increasing growth of the forest stand and the 
sequestration of carbon. 
the forestry association has calculated that the annual 
growth in sæbygård skov will sequestrate approx. 5 times 
as much carbon as the bank emits in total. this  
sequestration of carbon is enhanced by the fact that in 
2015 a small plot of agricultural land was purchased. this 
area has since been planted and converted to forest land, 
so it is now part of the forest reserve as the rest of the 
forest. 
the forest has a great recreational value
with its location close to sæby, sæbygård skov also has 
a great recreational value for local residents. the highest 
point – gedebjerg – lies 85 m above sea level and together 
with the area of woodland closest to the town, makes for 
ringkjøbing landbobank ensures carbon neutrality 
and a recreational, green, breathing space
18      ringkjøbing landbobank
the river sæby Å winds its way 
through sæbygård skov forest.
environment / social aspects
ringkjøbing landbobank has decided to buy third-party certified climate credits
the rating agencies that evaluate companies’ sustainability normally only accept carbon sequestration in forestry 
when the project has been certified according to a un-recognised standard. sæbygård skov is not, which is why the 
bank has decided to supplement the ownership of the forest with the purchase of third-party certified climate credits 
for 300 tonnes of carbon via first climate. these credits follow gold standard, which is based on a un-recognised 
standard. first climate acts as guarantor for the authenticity of the carbon savings. in effect the bank, via its credits,
is part of ensuring the operation of wind turbines in india. 
300 tonnes of carbon is more than ringkjøbing landbobank’s scope 1 and scope 2 total carbon emissions for one 
year, so with the purchase of climate credits the bank is guaranteed to be at least carbon-neutral – even if one ignores
the sequestration of carbon in sæbygård skov forest.
a popular place to go for a walk. along the sæby Å river, 
which winds its way for 2.7 km through the forest, you may 
be lucky enough to see the rare white-throated dipper. in the 
eastern part of the forest – close to sæby – there are five 
tennis courts which are rented out to sæby tennis club and 
regularly used by the club members.
with its status as a forest reserve, sæbygård skov can never 
be removed, and public access to the forest is enshrined 
in law. nevertheless, andersen sees it as an advantage for 
both the bank and the local area that the bank remains a 
long-term owner: 
- we have a new, declared target of becoming
carbon-neutral, and we would prefer to compensate 
in denmark for our danish carbon emissions. 
we do so by retaining sæbygård skov. we are also 
looking forward to a good collaboration with the 
forest’s users to further develop its recreational 
value – for instance, by increasing biodiversity, 
concludes andersen.
if you are lucky, 
you can see the rare 
white-throated dipper.
over 60% of the forest consists of deciduous trees.
    19
claus andersen, general 
manager of nordjyske bank.
on the outskirts of the forest
lie five tennis courts. 
• competent advice and financing of local business and 
private individuals
• contributing to the development of society through 
responsible granting of credit and payment of direct and 
indirect taxes imposed on us
• supporting local initiatives – including local sporting and 
cultural life
• contributing to continuous training and competence 
development – in partnership with relevant educational 
institutions and others
• contributing to developing financial understanding in 
children and young people
• maintaining local presence to ensure thorough local 
knowledge as the basis for competent advice and  
competitive financing of businesses and individuals
• sponsorship agreements with more than 1,400 local 
associations, cultural institutions and events
• distributions for charitable purposes from:
 
•  the bank’s own profit distribution
 
•  sdr. lem andelskasse’s fund
 
•  ulfborg sparekasse’s fund
 
•  sulsted-ajstrups sognes spare- og lånekasse’s  
 memorial foundation
 
•  Øster brønderslev sparekasse’s fund
• distribution of the award “association of the year” in 
west jutland and in north jutland the “nordjyske bank’s 
associations award”, “residential street of the year” and 
“north jutlander of the year”.
ringkjøbing landbobank wants to contribute positively
to the development of denmark and danish society
the bank is most important locally. we now have 
considerable activities throughout denmark but we remain 
a local bank with strong roots in west, central and north 
jutland, where we are represented under our two brands 
ringkjøbing landbobank and nordjyske bank. financial 
advice, financing, supporting local development, jobs, 
training and education are a big responsibility for us in 
these regions – and we are happy to accept it. when  
covid-19 hit denmark, we also strove to live up to this 
responsibility.
social aspects
one of denmark’s major taxpayers
ringkjøbing landbobank has paid dkk 224 million in corporate tax and dkk 58 million in payroll tax for the 2020
income year. the total amount for the 2019 income year was dkk 304 million and for 2018 dkk 191 million. in the 
2018 income year, ringkjøbing landbobank was number 39 on the list of denmark’s biggest corporate tax payers. 
to this should be added income tax and dividend tax paid by the bank’s employees and shareholders.
activities
focus
20      ringkjøbing landbobank
competence development and training
• intensive in-service training of employees in pension 
advice in particular. training is also provided in home 
ownership advice, private banking advice and insurance 
intermediation. this includes statutory certification and 
recertification of the employees’ competences in 
investment and insurance intermediation
• training all investment advisers in sustainability through 
bankinvest and the financial sector’s training centre
• annual job appraisal reviews with all employees
• training of interns, apprentices, financial economists 
trainees and financial bachelor trainees
• the bank works with a number of educational institutions 
including the financial sector’s training centre, aarhus 
and aalborg universities, local business academies and 
upper secondary schools
• the bank contributes to the extra course in economy and 
finance offered by the higher commercial examination 
colleges in ringkøbing and skjern 
• developing financial understanding by providing teaching 
staff and educational materials to lower secondary and 
post-secondary educational institutions as requested
the work of contributing positively to developing denmark 
and danish society will continue. our focus areas include:
• offering attractive, broadening knowledge-based jobs 
with equal opportunity for all employees
• working with relevant educational institutions on 
in-service training of employees, certification of the 
bank’s advisers and introducing children and young  
people to financial subjects and financial understanding
• training the bank’s advisers in new eu-wide rules on 
transparency regarding sustainability to prevent green-
washing in investments
• continued strong local presence both as a business and 
by supporting local initiatives – including sporting and 
cultural life in west, central and north jutland
social aspects
“
we knew that covid-19 would 
hit many others harder than us so
at an early stage we decided, and 
have implemented, a number of
initiatives to support our customers
and other partners.
john fisker, ceo 
ringkjøbing landbobank
principal activity
goals
esg report 2020      21
social aspects – key figures
other key figures
end of 2018
end of 2019
end of 2020
apprentices  
13
16
20
trainees 
4
5
8
total
17
21
28
additional apprentices and trainees in 2020 compared to 2018
11
2018
2019
2020
esg key figures
2019
2020
full-time workforce  
657.2 fte
632.2 fte
gender diversity
50.6 %
49.8 %
end of 2018
end of 2019
end of 2020
gender diversity, other management levels
25.7 %
23.5 %
26.1 %
2019
2020
gender pay ratio
employee turnover ratio
14.0 %
14.5 %
sickness absence
3,5 days/fte
5.7 days/fte
customer retention ratio
the bank does not publish a gender pay ratio. the bank gives equal pay for equal work. differences in the average 
pay for men and women therefore result from differences in gender representation in different types of jobs
– including as managers.
the bank does not publish a customer retention ratio. the bank considers the result of the largest survey of customer
satisfaction etc. in danish financial institutions to be an adequate assessment of customer satisfaction in the bank. 
the survey is carried out by voxmeter and has more than 60,000 respondents in the latest survey. in the surveys from
january 2020 and january 2021, the bank is placed in the top half of this scale.
22      ringkjøbing landbobank
ringkjøbing
landbobank and
nordjyske bank 
support more than
1,400 local 
associations.
ringkjøbing landbobank places great emphasis on having 
motivated employees who are always able to provide 
proper, competent advice to its customers. this requires 
continuous in-service training, explains mogens olesen, 
deputy manager and head of hr:
- for example, new certification rules have been
introduced for distributors of insurances, which is 
one of our business areas. in 2021, our advisers 
must pass a test in the area and we will also be 
busy training our investment advisers in the new 
eu-wide rules on transparency regarding sustain- 
ability in investments. in investments, we also work 
with a green, amber and red advisory level. green 
and amber are achieved through a test, whereas 
the red top level requires certification. finally, we 
regularly provide training and testing in home loans, 
personal data and prevention of money laundering.
job appraisal reviews
all of the bank’s employees participate in a collaboration 
and job satisfaction survey with 20 questions in connection 
with the annual job appraisal reviews.
the results of the survey in the first half of 2020 shows a 
very high proportion of satisfied employees (satisfactory, 
very satisfactory or extremely satisfactory), says mogens 
olsen:
- this result is particularly interesting because the answers 
were given less than two years after the merger of 
ringkjøbing landbobank and nordjyske bank. 2020 was 
the first year all employees as a whole participated in the 
survey and for this reason we see it as a very good result 
that confirms the fine welcome the merger has received.
extremely 
satisfactory
very 
satisfactory
less 
satisfactory
unsatisfactory
satisfactory
28.3 %
50.0 %
20.5 %
1.2 %
0.0 %
job satisfaction
the bank’s future advisers.
the bank’s great asset – the employees
internal survey made in the first half of 2020.
social aspects
24      ringkjøbing landbobank
education and training strategy
ringkjøbing landbobank has increased the number of 
finance apprentices and trainees in recent years. part of the 
reason is that we have harmonised the training programme 
under one bank after the merger with nordjyske bank, says 
mogens olesen:
- but we also made the strategic choice of training 
our advisers at our own training academy – 
combined with education at external institutions 
(academy, graduate diploma programme (hd), and 
the financial sector’s training centre). in practice, 
we train the employees from upper secondary to 
bachelor level. compared with the sector, we 
employ a relatively large proportion of finance 
apprentices who come to us directly from the
local upper secondary schools.
 
- our collaboration on this with the local upper secondary 
schools is fine. for instance, we work with two local 
commercial upper secondary schools on a special 
programme that helps the students learn and contributes 
to professional and personal development. the programme 
modules include both teamwork and individual challenges. 
in some modules employees from the bank teach the 
students relevant financial subjects. 
- we also annually employ a number of financial  
economists and bachelors of finance in a trainee  
programme that trains them to become advisers. we have 
a fine collaboration on this with the regional business  
academies in west, central and north jutland.
historically, ringkjøbing landbobank has employed 10-12 
persons a year for a training programme. at the end of 
2020, the bank had 28 employees at different stages of 
their training programmes.
a third component of the bank’s education and training 
strategy is to employ persons with academic backgrounds 
in central staff functions at the head office. this is done in 
good collaboration with the universities. the jobs are  
attractive and help to retain and attract well-educated 
employees to our local areas. 
sten erlandsen, finance manager 
ringkjøbing landbobank.
training in the new eu regulation on
transparency regarding sustainable
investments
training the advisers in the new eu regulation on 
transparency regarding sustainable investments 
will be a major task in 2021. all investment 
advisers have completed the first course, says 
sten erlandsen, finance manager of ringkjøbing 
landbobank: 
- we are working hard to get our policies and advi-
sory tools ready. at the same time we are awaiting 
the implementation standards we have to follow. 
when everything is in place, we will customise the 
contents of the training and in 2021 all advisers 
will be trained in implementing the new regulation.
 
mogens olesen, deputy manager and 
head of hr in ringkjøbing landbobank.
social aspects
esg report 2020      25
skjern gf football
ringkjøbing landbobank has been the major sponsor for 
skjern gf football since 2012, and the chairman of the 
football unit niels peter olesen says that the bank started 
by giving all members a kit bag with a towel and a drinking 
bottle. 
- it has given a great deal of visibility in the town, 
and it gives the bank somewhat better advertising 
than the sign on the stadium. 
ringkjøbing landbobank’s sponsorship enables some 
things to happen, which otherwise would not have been 
possible.
- so we can afford to buy the last bits of equipment, 
the last goalposts, to throw a party for all the 
trainers and to arrange for a bus trip to see national 
games etc. and sometimes the bank donates a beer 
or soft drink and a sausage for everyone who turns 
up to watch the best team play. it happened, for 
example, at the last home game before the winter 
break – though the sausage was cancelled due to 
covid-19.
it is niels peter olesen’s impression that ringkjøbing 
landbobank values the collaboration with grassroots clubs 
such as skjern gf football – he thinks that the partners 
match one another well. but this does not mean any fewer 
demands for the value of the collaboration, which primarily 
involves helping each other to gain visibility:
- the requirement of reciprocity is written into the contract. 
if i am interviewed by the press, i must turn up in club gear 
with the bank’s logo. and when we host a school football 
rally each september for 2,000 participants from the whole 
municipality, henrik from the bank comes to take lots of 
photos, which both the club and the bank can use. so we 
help each other to be visible, concludes olesen.
skjern gf football has approx. 500 members of all ages 
from 5 years old to old boys, and is ringkøbing-skjern 
municipality’s biggest football club. roughly 1/3 of the 
members are girls and women and there is complete
equality – both the men’s and women’s best teams play in 
series 1, where the women field a team together with 
tarm if.
 
cases
mutual 
assistance
to visibility
niels peter olesen, chairman for the football unit in skjern gf, 
in front of the stands in skjern sports park.
social aspects
26      ringkjøbing landbobank
cases
if skjold 
if skjold in sæby is a football club with approx. 500  
members, of whom 350 to 400 are children and the rest are 
adults. the men’s best team compete in denmark series, 
and the best women play in series 1.
flemming thingbak is club chairman, and he says that
nordjyske bank has been the major sponsor for many years:
- the collaboration is fine and constructive, and marked 
by a personal relation and face-to-face meetings – these 
things are really important for me. nordjyske bank still has 
a large branch right in the middle of the town marketplace, 
and this is the glue that helps to keep a town community 
like sæby together.
i’d like to keep a running dialogue on how things are going, 
who we are, and how the sponsorship is best activated. 
and it is not simply because the bank must have value for 
money – it just makes most sense to everyone involved.
thingbak makes much of the fact that even though one 
enters into a contract for a period, nordjyske bank is also 
approachable in the middle of the period.
- we found this out, for example, with relation to our 
artificial pitch. we wanted to have led floodlights.
 partly in order to be more sustainable – partly to 
give the pitch the best possible lighting. nordjyske 
bank approved of the idea, even well into the 
contract period. now the bank has its signs on the 
lighting masts, and there is a good reason for that!
skjold if on the other hand did not need special assistance 
during the corona lockdown.
- members’ subscriptions fell due on 1 july 2020, and even 
though we had not had any activity for most of the spring, 
not one of our members left. neither did our sponsors 
withdraw their support, for which, of course, we are grateful. 
but if we had needed help – and we still may – i am quite 
sure that we would have been given it, concludes flemming 
thingbak. 
continuous
dialogue
sæby stadium with its new led floodlights.
flemming thingbak, 
chairman of 
if skjold.
social aspects
esg report 2020      27
societal tasks, integrity 
and responsible management 
• carrying out our societal tasks competently and efficiently 
• avoiding any form of corruption and bribery
• keeping the data of our customers, employees and 
others safe
• ensuring that our suppliers conform to the bank’s values 
in terms of esg
• diversity and independence in the bank’s management 
organs
• a feeling among the bank’s employees that equal career 
and management opportunities are open to them,  
irrespective of gender
• the bank does not allow discrimination on account of 
gender, age, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religion, 
and has zero tolerance for bullying, and sexual and other 
forms of harassment.
• a market-compatible and transparent remuneration  
policy for the bank’s board of directors and general  
management
• creating competitive and transparent returns for our 
shareholders
• forum for sustainable finance’s 20 recommendations 
for sustainable transition of society
• preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism
• mandatory reporting of our customers’ interest, bank 
balances, debts, dividends and custody account holdings 
• offering a basic deposit account because everyone 
needs access to a nemkonto
• mandatory disclosure of the bank’s prices and terms and 
conditions based on pension information, price portals, 
good practice legislation, mifid etc.
• supporting secure and efficient digitalisation of society 
– including nemid and nemid’s replacement in 2021
• preparing and continuously adjusting systems and  
procedures to keep data safe
• the employees may neither offer nor accept gifts of more 
than token value
• health and wellbeing at the workplace are facilitated by 
a range of social events, health insurance, stress and 
alcohol policies, schemes for older employees, access 
to consultation with a business psychologist, guidance 
on optimal handling of the bank’s it tools and review and 
optimisation of the physical workstations
• in 2020, the bank has specified in its code of conduct 
that it has zero tolerance for sexually-related harassment
• the bank offers no form of incentive pay or variable pay 
to the board of directors or general management
• the bank offers no advantages reserved for its  
shareholders
our governance work is based on our social responsibility 
policy and our code of conduct under the headings of 
integrity and responsible management. we work closely 
with the danish authorities to ensure financial stability, 
create transparency and facilitate public tasks within tax 
reporting, monitoring of money-laundering and digitalisation.
the bank is managed on principles of diversity,  
independence, equal opportunities for all employees and 
transparency in our remuneration policy and the return to 
our shareholders.
our social responsibility policy and code of conduct are 
available at www.landbobanken.dk/policies.
governance
activities
focus
28      ringkjøbing landbobank
combating money laundering
• combating money laundering is the responsibility of all 
employees in ringkjøbing landbobank – not least because 
they best fulfil the bank’s statutory obligation to know its 
customers. all employees have the right and duty to  
report any unusual and/or suspicious activities or trans-
actions to the bank’s anti-money laundering department
• the procedures for combating money laundering are avail- 
able on the bank’s intranet and all employees have been 
trained and tested in them. training follows a two-year 
cycle to keep the existing employees up to date on new 
rules and new methods and tools implemented by the 
bank and to familiarise new employees with the subject
• the bank has set up a central department in charge of 
the work of combating money laundering and to support 
the employees in their efforts. the department is also 
responsible for monitoring and reducing the bank’s  
operational risks and for personal data protection
• in 2020, the bank’s board of directors endorsed the  
25 recommendations for anti-money laundering and  
counter-terrorist financing measures. the recommen- 
dations were the result of the work of finance denmark’s 
anti-money laundering task force in late 2019 
ringkjøbing landbobank is facing an important governance 
task also in the years to come. we will focus in particular on:
• doing our bit to reduce society’s money laundering 
challenges
• continuing to ensure our employees are alert to data 
protection
• health and wellbeing at the workplace
• the bank is working to achieve a more equal gender 
distribution on the board of directors and at other 
management levels
• ensuring that customers, employees, society and  
shareholders profit from the bank’s activities
• translating forum for sustainable finance’s 20  
recommendations on how the financial sector can 
accelerate putting the sustainable transition of the  
economy into action
governance
“
in 2020, ringkjøbing landbobank’s
board of directors endorsed the 25
recommendations for anti-money
laundering and counter-terrorist financing 
measures. the recommendations were
the result of the work of finance 
denmark’s anti-money laundering 
task force in late 2019.
john fisker, ceo 
ringkjøbing landbobank
danish fsa inspection of ringkjøbing landbobank
in december 2019, the danish fsa conducted a functional inspection of ringkjøbing landbobank’s anti-money 
laundering area. the outcome of the inspection was orders in september 2020 regarding improvement of the bank’s 
policies, routines and procedures. the bank was satisfied with the danish fsa’s inspection and the outcome and has 
in autumn 2020 implemented the improvements ordered.
principal activity
goals
 29
governance  – key figures
board meeting attendance ratio
esg key figures
end of 2018
end of 2019
end of 2020
gender diversity, board of directors
16.7 %
16.7 %
16.7 %
2019
2020
board meeting attendance ratio
98.0 %
96.8 %
ceo pay ratio
9.9 times
10.5 times
96.8 %
30      ringkjøbing landbobank
definitions of esg key figures
1 indirect emissions and consumption are not included.
2 for detailed explanations and reasons, please see the publication “esg key figures in the annual report” 
published by the danish finance society, fsr – danish auditors and nasdaq copenhagen, 2019.
the environment 1
key figure / unit
explanation and definition of the key figure
reason for the key figure
co2e, scope 1
metric tonnes
scope 1 emissions: direct emissions resulting from the company’s own 
combustion of fuels and materials. 
calculation: see footnote 2.
the development in co2e emissions compared with the quantities 
produced or revenue is useful to identify the companies that have been 
able to change to an economy less based on fossil fuels – either over time 
or compared with their competitors.
co2e, scope 2
metric tonnes
scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions resulting from the energy used to 
produce electricity, district heating and district cooling, which the company 
has purchased for its use from a third party. scope 2 emissions are in 
principle calculated like scope 1 emissions but typically do not cover all 
seven kyoto-gases/ghgs. 
calculation: see footnote 2.
the development in co2e emissions compared with the quantities 
produced or revenue is useful to identify the companies that have been 
able to change to an economy less based on fossil fuels – either over time 
or compared with their competitors.
energy consumption
gj
energy, like emissions, is typically calculated based on fuel consumption 
multiplied by conversion factors. the energy consumed includes scope 1 
and scope 2 sources as well as renewable energy sources.
calculation: see footnote 2.
the development in energy consumption compared with the quantities 
produced or revenue is useful to identify the companies that have been 
able to change to an economy based on less energy-consuming 
processes/assets – either over time or compared with their competitors.
renewable energy share
%
the share of total energy consumption coming from renewable energy 
sources.
calculation: (renewable energy / total energy consumption) x 100
the ratio can be used to identify companies that have transformed their 
company and energy consumption to renewable sources.
water consumption
m3
the sum of all water from all sources including surface water,
groundwater, rainwater and municipal water supply. 
calculation: sum of all water consumed gross.
water consumption illustrates the risk relating to disruption of the water 
supply and/or changes in water cost.
social aspects
key figure / unit
explanation and definition of the key figure
reason for the key figure
full-time workforce
full-time equivalents (ftes)
computed as a measure of the full-time workforce required to perform the 
work that has generated the financial ratios. 
calculation: full-time employees + fte-calculated hourly workers and 
fte-calculated temporary workers.
please note that the bank has not taken compensated overtime into 
account in its key figure.
indirectly important as the full-time workforce is the base for a range of 
other social indicators (see the following key figures).
gender diversity
%
gender diversity is calculated for ftes. 
calculation: female ftes / full-time workforce. 
please note that the bank has calculated its key figure at fte level since 
the number of temporary employees in the bank is very low.
the key figure for 2019 is calculated at the end of the year.
several surveys show that gender diversity correlates with better financial 
performance.
gender diversity, 
other management levels
%
the bank’s other management levels are computed using the same
method as in the “target figures and policy to increase the percentage 
of the under-represented gender in the bank’s management”.
calculation: number of female managers at end of year / total number 
of managers at end of year x 100.
several surveys show that gender diversity correlates with better financial 
performance. an unequal gender distribution may also indicate the risk 
of workplace inequality of a more general nature and resulting inability to 
attract female talent.
gender pay ratio
times
not disclosed in the esg report. 
the bank gives equal pay for equal work. differences in the average pay for 
men and women therefore result from differences in gender representation 
in different types of jobs – including as managers.
several surveys show that gender diversity correlates with better financial 
performance. an unequal gender distribution may also indicate the risk 
of workplace inequality of a more general nature and resulting inability to 
attract female talent.
employee turnover ratio
%
the employee turnover ratio is calculated both for voluntary and
involuntary leavers. retirees are included as involuntary leavers.
calculation: ((voluntary + involuntary fte leavers) / ftes) x 100.
the voluntary turnover ratio in particular is interesting as it shows how 
successful the company is in retaining its employees and consequently 
knowledge and skills.
sickness absence
days/fte
the number of full days employees are off sick compared to the total 
number of ftes. maternity/paternity leave is not included.
calculation: number of sick days for all own ftes for the period / total ftes.
if the company has a disproportionate amount of sick days per fte,
this may indicate lower employee satisfaction and/or safety issues. 
this is costly and could also lead to inability to attract talent.
customer retention ratio
%
not disclosed in the esg report. 
the bank considers the result of the largest survey of customer satisfaction 
etc. in danish financial institutions to be an adequate assessment of 
customer satisfaction in the bank. the survey is carried out by voxmeter 
and has more than 60,000 respondents in the latest survey. in the surveys 
from january 2020 and january 2021, the bank is placed in the top half of 
this scale.
this ratio can be seen as a proxy for customer satisfaction measurements, 
which are often incomparable across companies. a declining or low 
customer retention ratio may indicate that maintaining revenue in the 
future may be more costly or more problematic.
governance
key figure / unit
explanation and definition of the key figure
reason for the key figure
gender diversity, 
board of directors
%
gender diversity for the full board of directors.
calculation: (number of women board members / total number of board 
members) x 100.
several surveys show that gender diversity correlates with better financial 
performance.
board meeting attendance 
ratio
%
measures the activity level of the board members.
calculation: ((Σnumber of board meetings attended) per board member / 
(total number of board meetings x number of board members)) x 100.
a relatively low or declining attendance ratio may indicate lack of attention 
to the board work. this may indicate a governance culture at risk.
ceo pay ratio
times
how many times the median employee pay can be covered by the 
compensation paid to the ceo as a proxy for social equality.
calculation: ceo compensation / median employee pay (payroll and 
pension).
please note that the bank has used an average instead of a median for 
employee pay to calculate the key figure.
a relatively high or increasing ceo pay ratio can express the company’s 
valuation of the ceo compared to the regular employee. the key figure 
may be compared to the company’s financial performance – and if the 
latter is relatively low or declining, it could be questioned whether the 
remuneration package is socially appropriate. it may even indicate a 
governance culture at risk.
some comparative figures for 2019 have been adjusted due to updated data, changes in calculation methods and changed information from the authorities.
esg report 2020      31
ringkjøbing landbobank a/s
torvet 1, 6950 ringkøbing, denmark
tel. +45 9732 1166 · post@landbobanken.dk
landbobanken.com
company reg. (cvr) no. 37536814
