regenerative 
by nature
sustainability report 2020
the rockwool® trademark
the rockwool trademark was initially 
registered in denmark as a logo mark back  
in 1936. in 1937, it was accompanied with  
a word mark registration; a registration which  
is now extended to more than 60 countries  
around the world.
the rockwool trademark is one of the  
group’s largest assets, and thus, is well  
protected and defended by us throughout  
the world.
rockwool group’s primary trademarks:
rockwool®
rockfon®
rockpanel®
grodan®
lapinus®
additionally, rockwool group owns a large 
number of other trademarks.
photo credits
page 5: jesper schwartz
page 6: sailgp
page 17: rob driessen
page 20: michael best
page 20: gaël kazaz (image on the bottom)
page 25: nhs foundation trust
contents 
introduction 
04    building a better future
05    a message from ceo jens birgersson
06    sailgp: #raceforthefuture
07    progress and achievements 2020
08    sustainability focus areas, risks and governance
09    our value chain impact
creating impact 
12    resilient and sustainable recovery
13    the role of energy renovation
15    decarbonising our business and value chain
18    circularity in built environments
22    healthy and fire safe neighbourhoods
factbook and data
28    product impacts and other indirect impacts
29    climate and energy
30    environmental management 
31    waste and recycling
32    safety and social issues
34    corporate governance
35    accounting principles
38    limited assurance report
39    esg performance
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
03
all rockpanel boards are 
durable like stone, 
easy to cut, and resistant 
to the effects of moisture, 
temperature, fire and  
the weather.
in schools with no sound 
absorption, children cannot 
hear up to 70% of the 
consonants their teachers 
speak.
lapinus rockflow can ab sorb 
up to 95% of its volume 
in water, without losing its 
rigidity and strength.
urban horticulture
can reduce land use for 
vegetable growing by 80% 
or more.
proper insulation alone can 
reduce heating needs by 
70%.
building a better future
climate change, resource scarcity, rapid 
urbanisation, and the growing emphasis 
on human health and wellbeing create big 
challenges as well as opportunities for society. 
at 
rockwool, 
we 
transform 
volcanic 
rock into stone wool, creating safe and 
sustainable products that help people and 
the communities where they live, learn, 
work and play to thrive.  indeed, stone wool  
is a versatile natural material with multiple 
benefits that makes it ideal for applications in 
buildings, industry, transportation, horticulture 
and water management. 
in this report, you will learn how rockwool’s 
products contribute to addressing many 
of society’s biggest challenges, creating 
new opportunities to enrich modern living 
and build safer, healthier, and more climate 
resilient communities. you will also read more 
about how we strive every day to create new 
solutions and maximise the benefits of using 
our products and improve existing processes 
to reduce our operational footprint.
in 2020, despite the many challenges the 
covid-19 pandemic brought, we kept our 
employees safe, marked significant progress 
toward 
several 
of 
our 
six 
group-wide 
sustainability goals, and strengthened our 
commitment to decarbonisation by setting 
ambitious science-based targets in line with 
the paris agreement goals. 
there were challenges too. for example, 
despite successfully offering reclaimed waste 
schemes in three more countries in 2020, there 
remain  structural barriers in many markets that 
make increasing recycling volumes difficult. 
and whilst we managed to reduce the number 
of lost time incidents, our lost time incident 
rate increased.
rockwool at a glance
11 500  
employees across europe, 
north america, russia and asia
47  
manufacturing 
facilities
68 
nationalities 
worldwide
2 602 eurm  
net sales
10 
sdgs to which we have 
committed
6 
group-wide 2030 
sustainability goals
2 
group-wide 2034 
science-based targets
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
04
introduction
last year will be one we will never forget and 
will be remembered most for the covid-19 
pandemic and the dramatic impacts it has 
had on all our lives. the resulting global 
health and economic crises on top of a global 
climate crisis has created significant challenges  
for governments and society that will take time 
to address.
while climate measures initially took a back seat 
to the immediate tasks of providing healthcare 
and 
boosting 
economies, 
the 
pandemic 
ultimately triggered government action to tackle 
all three challenges at once. it quickly became 
apparent that leveraging climate initiatives to 
spur economic growth and create healthier and 
safer communities were mutually reinforcing 
opportunities.
this greening of the economic recovery is 
a generational opportunity that we cannot 
afford to miss. the european commission is 
demonstrating genuine leadership on this front, 
highlighting that buildings are crucial for both 
climate action and economic recovery. 
combined with the commission raising the eu’s 
2030 greenhouse gas emissions reduction target 
to at least 55 percent, its “renovation wave” 
strategy calls for doubling the eu’s current 
building renovation rate to two percent. they 
are working on important new policy initiatives 
to achieve that goal. this matters greatly as 
buildings are the eu’s biggest carbon emitter, 
responsible for 36 percent of greenhouse  
gas emissions. 
the same can be said for buildings in the 
united states, which alone are responsible for 
more greenhouse gas emissions than any other 
country except for china. pursuing the biden 
administration’s 
ambitious 
climate 
agenda 
and targeted building renovation goals will 
contribute to reducing energy consumption and 
related emissions as well as creating healthier 
and more resilient buildings. we look forward 
to our newest manufacturing facility starting up 
operations in the united states around mid-
year, which will increase our ability to supply the 
growing demand for our products there.
rockwool’s thermally efficient, fire-resistant, 
and recyclable insulation, ceiling tiles, and 
exterior cladding products are a perfect fit for this 
wave of renovation and the growing awareness 
of the important role buildings play in achieving 
climate goals. the ability to infinitely recycle 
stone wool into new insulation with no loss of 
performance when a building is renovated or 
taken down means that there is less waste going 
to landfill and less end-of-life emissions than  
with 
non-recyclable 
materials 
that 
might 
otherwise be incinerated.
one could say we are renovating our own house 
too. we have a strong foundation as a net carbon-
negative company due to the performance of our 
products – yet, as a manufacturer we also know 
we need to do more to reduce the impact of our 
own production processes.
that is why in december 2020, we announced 
commitments to accelerate the decarbonisation 
of our business, with specific long-term targets 
verified and approved by the science based 
targets initiative (sbti). these are ambitious 
commitments, and we are proud to be among the 
few energy-intensive manufacturing companies 
to have our science-based targets verified and 
approved by sbti. having developed and 
deployed innovative new melting technologies at 
rockwool factories in denmark and norway, 
we have already reduced our carbon emissions 
in the nordic region by more than 70 percent 
relative to the 1990 baseline year. you can read 
more about the targets and how we will reach 
them on pages 15 - 17. 
these science-based targets will reduce our 
lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions by one-
third by 2034. in addition, these targets also 
encompass reducing the emissions that result 
from further business growth. these targets 
come on top of the six sustainability goals we set 
in 2016 among other things to continue reducing 
the carbon intensity (carbon emitted per tonne 
produced) of our production. 
during 2020, we further strengthened the 
circularity of our business by meeting or 
exceeding two of the six interim goals two years 
ahead of schedule – specifically, on reducing 
production waste going to landfill and improving 
the water efficiency in our factories. we made 
good progress on meeting two of the other four 
goals. although we had fewer lost time incidents 
in 2020 than in 2019, we did not meet our goal to 
reduce the lost time incident rate. the safety of 
our colleagues and those working at all our sites 
will always be our highest priority. you can read 
more details on our progress toward the six goals 
on pages 29 - 33. 
we are also proud of the fact that for the second 
time, trucost, part of standard & poor’s global, 
has classified all our products as being sdg 
positive, meaning they have a positive impact 
on reaching the un sustainable development 
goals. it is also worth noting that in the eu 
context, we estimate that 95 percent of the 
revenue from our insulation business is taxonomy 
eligible in the climate mitigation category. 
despite the challenges still facing the global 
community, we are optimistic about the future. 
the solutions to many of the world’s challenges 
already exist, especially in the built environment. 
at rockwool, we look forward to continuing 
to do our part to create more resilient,  
healthier and safer communities and a more 
circular economy.
despite the 
challenges we 
are optimistic 
about the 
future
jens birgersson, ceo
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
05
#raceforthefuture
as proud partner to the denmark sailgp team, 
rockwool will play a key role as sailgp’s 
supercharged, foiling boats take to the water 
for the global racing championship’s second 
season, which gets underway in april 2021.
sailgp has fast become the pinnacle event in 
sailing, with epic on-water battles, iconic venues 
and cutting-edge technology delivering an 
unmissable spectacle for fans. 
but sailgp is about far more than just top-level 
sport – and has an ambition to be the world’s 
most sustainable purpose-driven global sports 
and entertainment platform. through its race 
for the future initiative, sailgp will use its global 
reach to race for a better future and champion 
a world powered by nature to accelerate the 
transition to clean energy.
sailgp has set an ambitious target to reduce 
emissions by 55 percent by 2025. underpinned 
by an action-orientated plan spanning sailgp 
events, host venues, technologies, partners and 
athletes, each team will race for purpose, and will 
collaborate with a race for the future partner to 
help raise awareness around an important cause.
sailgp season 2 features eight grand prix events, 
including the rockwool denmark grand prix 
in aarhus, denmark in august 2021, marking a 
memorable homecoming for both rockwool 
and the denmark sailgp team.
we 
have 
a 
hugely 
exciting 
opportunity as a global platform 
to not only transform the sport, but also 
drive an optimistic, purpose-led agenda 
that inspires, delivers real and meaningful 
change, and focuses on a better future for 
all”, said sailgp ceo, sir russell coutts. 
“we are delighted to be working with 
rockwool – an innovative, purpose-led 
company – and the rest of our key partners, 
to raise awareness around these issues and 
to make decisions with that better future 
in mind. it is a new and progressive way of 
thinking for the sport, and together, we can 
make a real impact”. 
“sailing showcases the best of our planet – 
the ocean is our race track, and the boats are 
powered by nature”, said mirella vitale, senior 
vice president, marketing, communications and 
public affairs at rockwool group.
“rockwool’s collaboration with the denmark 
sailgp team gives us the opportunity to 
showcase our sustainable solutions and tell 
our story in new ways, whilst playing a key role 
in sailgp’s wider global movement to build a 
better future”.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
06
factbook and data
06
progress and achievements 2020
our goal: reduce co2 emission intensity 
(co2/t stone wool) from our stone wool 
production facilities by 20% by 2030  
(10% by 2022)
co2 emissions
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
9% 10%
our goal: reduce energy consumption 
(kwh/m2) within own (non-renovated) 
offices by 75% by 2030 (35% by 2022)
energy efficiency
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
35%
5% 
our goal: reduce water intensity  
(m3/t stone wool) from our stone wool 
production facilities by 20% by 2030  
(10% by 2022) 
water consumption
2020
2015
baseline
2022 goal
10%
zero fatalities in 2020
our goal: reduce lti frequency rate by 
10% and ensure zero fatalities annually
safety, health and wellbeing
2020
goal
2019 
baseline
2020
10%
-3%
our goal: increase the number of 
countries where we offer recycling 
services for our products to 30 by 2030 
(15 by 2022)
reclaimed waste
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
14
15
our goal: reduce landfill waste (tonnes) 
from our stone wool production facilities 
by 85% by 2030 (40% by 2022)
landfill waste
2015 
baseline
2020
2022 goal
50%
absolute factory 
greenhouse gas emissions 
(co2e) science-based target
absolute lifecycle 
greenhouse gas emissions 
(co2e) science-based target
our goal: reduce factory absolute 
greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2)  
by 38 percent by 2034
our goal: reduce non-factory, absolute 
lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 
by 20 percent by 2034
2020
2020
2019 
baseline
2019 
baseline
2034 goal
2034 goal
38%
20%
10% 
11% 
40%
sdg
13
sdg
13
sdg
13
sdg
7
sdg
6
sdg
12
sdg
12
sdg
8
100% 
of rockwool’s products are  
classified as sdg positive by trucost,  
part of s&p global in 2020.
in 2020, rockwool was again recognised for 
its positive impact on society and at the same 
time made significant progress in reducing its 
operational footprint. 
trucost, part of standard & poor’s global, has 
for the second time classified all our products 
as being sdg positive, meaning they have been 
assessed as having a positive impact on reaching 
the un sustainable development goals. 
we have also estimated that 95 percent of the 
revenue from our insulation business is taxonomy 
eligible in the category climate mitigation1. 
the remaining five percent is mainly from traded 
goods. the recognition of the positive role 
rockwool plays in shaping a sustainable 
society is reflected in our being included again 
this year in the portfolio of sdg invest, as one of 
50-60 best performing companies globally.
we completed two of our six interim sustainability 
goals two years ahead of schedule. those two 
goals are reducing production waste going to 
landfill by 40 percent – we hit 50 percent; and 
improving the water efficiency in our factories 
by 10 percent. we made good progress on 
meeting two of the other four goals, whilst we 
did not meet our safety goal. you can read more  
details about this progress in the following pages 
of this report.
1 european commission, 2020, eu taxonomy for sustainable activities, https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/sustainable-finance/eu-taxonomy-sustainable-activities_en 
95%
revenue from insulation 
business is eu taxonomy 
eligible
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
07
sustainability focus areas, risks and governance
our approach regarding sustainability is based 
on three principles covering both the handprint 
and footprint:
• using less energy and materials. 
reducing energy and resource consumption 
will always be the first principle and preferred 
approach. we do this through the circularity 
of our products and the significant amounts 
of energy and resources our products save 
in their lifetime. we continually improve the 
energy efficiency of our own operations  
and products.
• ‘‘greening the rest’’, by saving energy 
in buildings and in our own operations, we 
help reduce overall energy system capacity 
needs and thereby contribute to a faster and 
more cost-effective greening the rest i.e. 
transitioning to renewable energy sources 
(see page 16).  
• addressing 
climate 
hazards. 
by thinking ahead and maximising the 
performance 
of 
existing 
products 
and 
innovating new ones, we are addressing many 
climate-related hazards, such as fires, flooding, 
sustainability is integral to our 
business strategy. we pursue a 
fact-based, auditable approach 
backed 
up 
by 
third-party 
references and methodologies to 
document progress in maximising 
our products’ positive impact 
(handprint) 
and 
minimising 
the impact of our operations 
(footprint).
asset risks, and fossil fuel dependency. 
examples of this include our non-combustible, 
energy saving insulation products (see page 
22) and solutions for climate adaptation (see 
page 17). we are also reducing our own 
fossil fuel dependency with an ambitious 
decarbonisation strategy (see page 15).
going beyond reducing our 
operational footprint
in 2016, we committed to contribute actively to 10 
of the united nations sustainable development 
goals (sdgs). at the same time, we set six 
sustainability goals, all of which are sdg aligned. 
keen to show that true sustainability goes 
beyond reducing our operational footprint, we 
measure our products’ lifecycle impacts through 
specific metrics. to strengthen data quality, our 
sustainability goal performance was externally 
verified and assured for the first time in 2020.
prioritising our sustainability 
efforts
we prioritised the sdgs on which to focus and 
set the six sustainability goals after consulting 
with key internal and external stakeholders as 
well as evaluating our core competencies. our 
annual strategy process examines how best to 
address the opportunities and challenges we 
face in making progress on our sustainability 
priorities – and refines implementation plans. 
global business units feed into this process with 
input from key stakeholders such as customers, 
value chain partners, policymakers, and others. 
the group’s strategy processes are dynamic, 
introducing new priorities as needed, such as 
the two science-based greenhouse gas emission 
reduction targets set in 2020 (see page 15).
in 2020, group operations & technology sustainability committee with specific focus on 
strategic initiatives within operations was established. for more information see  
https://www.rockwool.com/group/about-us/corporate-governance/governance-bodies/ 
remuneration
committee
enterprise risk
management
committee
group
sustainability
committee
integrity
committee
group 
operations
& technology 
sustainability
committee
board
of directors
group management
global business units
audit
committee
group management approves and provides feedback to the portfolio of programmes and targets 
within the sustainability area and reports to the board of directors.
the committee, 
consists of members 
from group 
management and 
group functions with 
key role to review and 
update the internal 
risk management 
framework and to 
implement related 
processes. 
the committee 
consists of 
management 
representatives from 
selected global 
business units and has 
as main purpose to 
leverage and integrate 
sustainability across 
the group.
the committee 
consists of 
management 
representatives from 
group operations 
& technology and 
group sustainability 
and has as main 
purpose to track 
progress on strategic 
sustainability initiatives 
and goals.
the committee 
comprises members of 
group management 
and group general 
counsel. the goal 
is to safeguard and 
strengthen integrity 
and ensure group 
conducts its business 
activities with 
customers and society 
in an ethical manner.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
08
sdg-2
enabling more 
efficient food
production
sdg-6
enhancing
water efficiency 
in horticulture
sdg-6
improving water 
efficiency in factories
sdg-7
creating more 
energy-efficient
buildings and 
industry
sdg-7
improving energy 
efficiency in own 
office buildings
sdg-8
providing local
jobs and 
economic
growth
sdg-8
zero fatalities 
and reducing lost 
time incidents rate
sdg-9
enabling more 
durable and fire-safe
infrastructure
sdg-11
supporting
more affordable 
housing and energy
sdg-12
expanding rockwool's product recycling 
take-back services to recycle stone wool 
in our factories or in other industries
sdg-13
enabling more carbon-efficient
buildings and industry
sdg-13
reducing absolute 
ghg emissions and co2 
intensity in factories
sdg-17
engaging in effective
collaboration
sdg-12
reducing landfill
waste from production
sdg-3
reducing noise and creating
acoustically sound buildings
virgin raw materials
and secondary
raw materials
from industry
recycling to other
industries 
and landfilling
energy use
product impact metric
our sustainability goals
sdg-13
reducing absolute
non-factory ghg emissions
our value chain impact
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
09
les trèfles primary school in anderlecht, belgium
from taking action on climate 
change, to creating jobs, helping 
communities be safe and healthy, 
and ensuring a sustainable food 
chain, we are contributing  
to enabling resilient and 
sustainable recovery.
in this section
12    resilient and sustainable recovery
13    the role of energy renovation
15    decarbonising our business and value chain
18    circularity in built environments
22    healthy and fire safe neighbourhoods
creating 
impact
rockwool sustainability report 2020
11
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
resilient  
and sustainable recovery
a unique opportunity to reimagine 
life in cities
the covid-19 pandemic has disrupted the 
global status quo, shining a harsh light on the 
vulnerabilities in the global economic, social, 
and environmental systems. 
as governments develop and implement 
social and economic recovery plans, there is a 
pressing need to reimagine life in cities, building 
prosperous, healthy and resilient communities 
better prepared to face future challenges 
including climate change.
buildings play a critical role 
globally, buildings account for around 38 
percent of co2 emissions1 and 40 percent of the 
total primary energy demand2.
the building sector thus has a major role and 
responsibility to contribute to tackling both the 
existing challenges communities face as well as 
help them adapt to and mitigate climate change 
impacts. in short, resilient neighbourhood 
regeneration.
for rockwool, this transformation goes 
beyond repairing buildings to reimagining 
communities and their whole way of living. the 
building stock can help communities adapt to this 
new way of living by improving energy efficiency 
and fire safety in ageing structures, creating 
a healthier indoor climate, and establishing 
circular supply chains for the materials used to 
construct and renovate buildings.  
building on our three sustainability principles 
of using less, greening the rest and addressing 
climate hazards, we are contributing in multiple 
ways, including:
• driving 
increased 
energy 
efficiency, 
particularly of the existing building stock, 
to capture the multiple economic, climate, 
and health benefits that result from building 
renovation3;
• decarbonising our business and value chain 
thereby further reinforcing our net carbon 
negative foundation;
• preserving the value of new and existing 
buildings and the materials they consist of by 
ensuring their durability, performance and 
circularity;
• delivering healthy living environments by 
using building materials with natural fire and 
climate resilience, thermal comfort, and high 
acoustic performance; and,
• enabling sustainable hydroponic horticulture 
in neighbourhoods through increasing yields 
and using less land, water and fertilisers. 
in the following chapters, we look at how 
we are delivering on these key elements by 
maximising the positive benefits of our products 
and minimising the negative impacts of our 
manufacturing processes and value chain.
1 global alliance for buildings and construction, 2020, 2020 global status report
2 european commission, energy performance of buildings directive, 2019 
3 european commission, 2020, communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council,  
  the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions
as countries tackle the economic and social impact of the covid-19 
pandemic, there is also a need to reimagine urban living. this is about 
much more than simply renovating buildings. it is about resilient 
neighbourhood regeneration that equips communities to face 
tomorrow’s challenges. rockwool can play a powerful role in this 
process and we are determined to seize the opportunity. 
rockwool sustainability report 2020
12
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
the role of energy renovation
building renovation is picking up 
speed
as a key player in the building sector, we 
advocate for policy changes to accelerate 
progress in this area. we are helping to facilitate 
this change through practical support, such as 
training craftsmen and advising end-consumers, 
policymakers, and regulators on setting up and 
utilising renovation schemes.
according to the european commission, building 
renovation rates need to double over the next 
decade to meet the 55 percent greenhouse gas 
reduction target by 20301. this in turn is needed 
to meet the eu’s goal of becoming climate 
neutral by 2050.
renovating europe’s ageing building stock is 
central in the commission’s plans, in large part 
because buildings are the eu’s biggest carbon 
emitter, responsible for 36 percent2 of its 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
in the united states, buildings3 alone are 
responsible for more greenhouse gas emissions 
annually than those of any other country except 
for china4.
and no less important in times of covid-19, 
renovating buildings can contribute to job 
creation. in fact, it is estimated that 
per billion euro invested, 
renovating the homes and 
buildings we occupy can create 
18 000 jobs5.
what’s more, energy renovation also plays 
an important role in improving air quality and 
addressing energy poverty – both issues present 
compelling challenges especially in eastern and 
parts of southern europe1. 
this is why the commission’s new renovation 
wave strategy is so important. it acknowledges 
the highstakes as well as the role building 
renovation can play in greening the economic 
recovery and improving the overall health and 
wellbeing among those living in europe. 
our buildings generate 40% of our emissions.
they need to become less wasteful, less expensive and more sustainable. i want 
nextgenerationeu to kickstart a european renovation wave and make our union a leader 
in the circular economy”.
ursula von der leyen, president of the european commission6
energy renovation is a major driver for achieving global climate targets 
and future proofing tomorrow. it has a positive impact on many areas 
where changes are needed if we are to reimagine city living – economic 
revitalisation, the health of urban communities, addressing energy 
poverty and creating a decarbonised, circular building stock. 
1 european commission, 14 october, 2020, questions and answers on the renovation wave. according to the source,  
   an estimated 34 million households cannot afford to pay their energy bills,  
   https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_20_1836
2 european commission, 2020, in focus: energy efficiency in buildings
3 environmental and energy study institute, 2019, buildings & built infrastructure,  
  https://www.eesi.org/topics/built-infrastructure/description
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/carbon-impact/#methodology
rockwool building 
insulation sold in 2020 will 
save annually  
18 twh
heating energy – four times 
the annual power capacity 
of hornsea one, the world’s 
largest offshore wind farm7.
sdg-7
creating more energy-
efficient buildings and 
industry
4 european commission, 2020, fossil co2 emissions of all world countries – 2020 report
5 renovate europe, 2020, building renovation: a kick-starter for the eu economy,  
   https://www.renovate-europe.eu/2020/06/10/building-renovation-a-kick-starter-for-the-eu-economy/
6 european commission, 16 september, 2020, state of the union address by president von der leyen at the european 
   parliament plenary, https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_20_1655
7 Ørsted, 2020, hornsea one offshore wind farm, https://hornseaprojects.co.uk/
rockwool sustainability report 2020
13
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
making a real difference on climate 
change and jobs – the italian 
“superbonus” scheme breaks new ground  
in may 2020 the italian government adopted the decree 
“decreto rilancio” with the aim of helping to “relaunch” the 
italian economy in response to the covid-19 pandemic. 
to accelerate renovation of the existing building stock, 
the decree established the financial scheme superbonus 
110%. to qualify for the superbonus, a renovation must 
improve the building’s energy efficiency by at least two 
energy classes. taking advantage of this scheme is, 
however, not always straight forward. questions can arise, 
for example, regarding issues such as one’s eligibility for 
the scheme; measures needed to achieve the required 
level of improvement; or what documentation is needed 
to qualify. 
to address these challenges, rockwool created a team 
to help applicants and other stakeholders throughout 
the project application, planning, and implementation 
phases. our team also provides on- and offsite installation  
and technical support as well as training classes for 
specialised installers.
the italian superbonus scheme is a prime example of an 
effective mechanism to promote a green recovery in the 
building sectors, creating multiple local jobs1.
1 renovate europe, 2020, building renovation: a kick-starter for the eu economy 
   https://www.renovate-europe.eu/2020/06/10/building-renovation-a-kick-starter-for-the-eu-economy/
sdg-8
providing local jobs 
and economic growth
rockwool’s insulation products 
sold in 2020 will over the lifetime of 
their use save our customers energy 
costs of around  
55 eurbn
around
35 000 jobs
created locally at our facilities  
worldwide and with suppliers.
by being point of contact for renovation projects, rockwool 
brings together relevant stakeholders with a genuine interest 
in improving the energy efficiency of the building. this helps to ensure 
a proper focus on project details to address any uncertainties, optimise 
the process, and ensure a successful renovation project”.
luca pofi, president of casaclima network lazio
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/socioeconomic-impact/
refurbishment of a multi-unit 
house in milan, italy
rockwool sustainability report 2020
14
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
decarbonising our business 
and value chain
in december 2020, we announced ambitious, 
science-based global decarbonisation targets 
that have been verified and approved by 
the science based targets initiative (sbti). 
we believe that it is important to have an 
independent verification system to ensure 
targets are based on science and will contribute 
to achieving paris agreement goals. key 
elements of rockwool’s decarbonisation 
plans include:
1 the 38 percent target covers scope 1 and 2 emissions
2 the 20 percent target covers scope 3 emissions 
3 greenhouse gas protocol has developed standards and 
definitions to scope 1, 2 and 3, which are applied in this 
report. for more information see https://ghgprotocol.org/
100 times 
over its lifetime rockwool 
building insulation sold  
in 2020 will save 
the carbon emitted and energy 
consumed in its production.
in addition to the measures already taken, 
which have reduced our co2 emissions per 
produced tonne with nine percent since 2015, 
these absolute emission reduction targets 
equate to an ambitious one-third reduction 
of rockwool’s lifecycle (scope 1, 2, and 3)3 
greenhouse gas emissions in 15 years. as these 
are absolute targets, they also encompass 
reducing additional emissions that result from 
organic growth in the target period (2019-2034). 
reducing factory absolute  
greenhouse gas emissions  
by 38% by 2034  
(relative to baseline year 2019)1
reducing non-factory,  
absolute lifecycle  
greenhouse gas emissions  
by 20% by 2034 
(relative to baseline year 2019)2
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/carbon-impact/#methodology
we congratulate rockwool 
group 
for 
being 
leaders 
in 
their sector by having the science based 
targets initiative approve their emissions 
reduction targets”, says alberto carrillo 
pineda, director, science based targets 
at cdp, one of the science based 
targets initiative partners. “by setting 
targets that are grounded in climate 
science, rockwool group is setting 
themselves up for success in the transition 
to a net-zero economy”. 
science based target initiative
we have proactively decided to set a specific 
target for the whole of our scope 3 emissions, 
even though this was not required by sbti. 
we are doing this because we recognise that 
reaching a carbon-neutral society requires 
looking 
beyond 
manufacturing 
toward 
minimising emissions in the whole lifecycle, 
including end-of-life. 
at the same time we will be ensuring continued 
reduction in the carbon intensity (carbon 
emitted per tonne produced) of our production.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
15
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
moss, norway
bjørn andersen, senior vice president for group 
operations & technology, rockwool group, 
with the 2020 european environmental award
technology innovation
the new decarbonisation commitments build 
on rockwool’s existing status as a net carbon 
negative company, in that over the lifetime of its 
use, the building insulation rockwool sold 
in 2020 will save 100 times the carbon emitted 
and energy consumed in its production1. the 
ability to infinitely recycle stone wool without 
any loss of performance also sets it apart from 
non-recyclable construction materials that might 
otherwise be incinerated, resulting in end-of-life 
emissions. recycling stone wool at our factories 
contributes to reducing production-related 
carbon emissions. 
building on our decades-long efforts to 
improve the energy efficiency of our own 
operations, reducing the direct emissions from 
our production is a key focus of our technology 
innovation. for example, we are developing 
large-scale electric melting technology, which 
is environmentally well-suited in countries 
where the electricity grid is already low carbon.  
that’s why we chose our factory in moss, norway 
to pilot the industry’s largest electric melter. 
as we continue decarbonising, we are already 
reaping the benefits of substantial investments 
in 
industry-leading 
fuel-flexible 
melting 
technology that allows us to shift from coal to 
less carbon-intensive fuels such as natural gas 
or biogas in the facilities where this technology 
is being used. in addition to converting our 
two danish factories to natural gas in 2020 and 
certified climate-neutral biogas in 2021, we will 
also in 2021 convert one of our production lines 
in poland to natural gas and start up operations 
at our newest facility under construction in the 
united states with natural gas instead of coal. 
we plan to convert other production lines using 
this fuel-flexible melting technology from coal 
to gas over the next few years. going forward,  
the learnings we gain from these multiple 
innovations 
and 
our 
ongoing 
energy 
efficiency efforts will be applied elsewhere in 
rockwool’s global operations.
using less  
and greening the rest
1. saving energy and then generating renewable energy to satisfy the remaining requirements 
is the most efficient, cost-effective way of decarbonising society2.  
2. saving energy, even when that energy is renewable, reduces the overall energy system 
capacity needs, thereby making the transition to renewable energy even more affordable. 
for example, the consultancy material economics estimates that 22 eurbn can be saved by 
insulating europe’s buildings instead of expanding renewable energy capacity3.
3. energy efficiency is a catalyst for thermal renewable heating systems such as heat pumps 
as it reduces required upfront costs and makes them more efficient during operation and 
thus more cost-effective4.
1 including upstream emissions from the extraction and transportation of raw materials and fuels
2 fraunhofer institute, 2015, how energy efficiency cuts costs for a 2-degree future
3 material economics, 2018, internal analysis for rockwool
4 guidehouse, 2020, internal report
rockwool wins 2020 european environmental 
award for sustainable production processes
as part of the broader european business awards for the environment, the 
danish society of engineers selected rockwool as the 2020 danish winner 
for sustainable processes, which automatically qualifies us for the europe-wide 
business awards competition, the winners of which will be selected in 2022. 
the sustainable processes award is given for the development and 
implementation of innovative processes that substantially contribute to a more 
sustainable society by reducing the environmental impact of manufacturing 
processes. rockwool is proud to have developed its award-winning 
technology that enables us to convert our core stone melting process from coal 
to gas at the factories where this new technology is being used.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
16
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
installation of rockflow in rosmalen, the netherlands
reducing our scope 3 lifecycle 
emissions
the majority of our scope 31 emissions are before 
the manufacturing stage in the form of procured 
materials and energy. we will work on reducing 
these emissions in a number of ways. electrifying 
our factories, for example,  will remove emissions 
from the production and transportation of fuels 
such as coke. in the coming years we will also 
work with our suppliers to reduce the carbon 
intensity of procured materials. our emissions 
after the manufacturing stage in the form of 
transportation of products, construction sites 
and waste disposal are limited by comparison. 
for example, our focus on recycling ensures 
end-of-life emissions will remain relatively low 
going forward.
innovative solutions for 
urban climate adaptation
rockflow is an example of one of our product 
lines that significantly contributes to urban 
climate adaptation by:
• collecting large amounts of rain water in 
underground buffers;  
• reducing the risk of surface water 
contamination from sewer system 
overflows;  and,
• helping to restore the natural water 
balance in the cities. 
rockflow 
is 
one 
of 
the 
business 
opportunities included in our annual 
reporting on task force on climate-related 
financial disclosures (tcfd) via cdp  
(www.cdp.net).
rockwool technical insulation 
sold in 2020 will save 
0.8 billion tonnes
of co2 over the lifetime of its use  
– more than germany’s annual  
carbon emissions2.
sdg-13
enabling more carbon-efficient
buildings and industry
1 greenhouse gas protocol has developed standards and definitions to scope 1, 2 and 3, which are applied in this report. for more information see https://ghgprotocol.org/
2 european commission, 2020, fossil co2 emissions of all world countries – 2020 report
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/carbon-impact/#methodology
rockwool sustainability report 2020
17
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
circularity in built environments
putting circularity into practice 
across our business
circularity is a key strategic priority for 
rockwool and plays a vital role in our 
contribution to creating resilient communities. 
we use an abundant natural material and 
engineer it to perform consistently for decades. 
our products are long-lasting, easy to dismantle, 
and the stone wool used to make them  
can be reused and infinitely recycled. the 
durability of our insulation, which has a lifespan 
of more than 55 years2, contributes to greater 
resource efficiency. 
in addition, our technology allows us to upcycle 
waste from other industries as alternatives to 
these materials being landfilled. we repurpose 
waste, for example, from the aluminium industry, 
power plants, and public wastewater treatment. 
as a result, in certain geographies and product 
lines, our stone wool products can contain up to 
75 percent recycled material. 
this is an excellent starting point. but we are 
not stopping here. we are pioneering efforts 
rockcycle® in action  
in leipzig
our rockcycle® service is supporting 
a major housing project in leipzig, 
germany, to significantly reduce 
the amount of waste that otherwise 
would be sent to landfill. built in 
the early 1980s, the façade of the 
housing project is currently being 
retrofitted with rockwool stone 
wool insulation.
typically, cutting insulation panels 
to size on a construction site like this 
would result in 5 to 10 percent of the 
material being discarded and thrown 
away. instead, via rockycle® the cut-
offs are collected and returned to our 
factories where they are processed 
and recycled back into new stone 
wool with the original quality, 
durability and thermal properties. 
in our industry to apply the principles of  
a circular economy, building an ecosystem 
of industrial ecology where the waste of one  
industry becomes a resource for our production 
and vice-versa.
our perspective is broad. by applying the core 
principles (see p. 19) of the circular economy 
across our business, we’re delivering better 
products to our clients. we’re reducing the 
consumption of raw materials as well as 
mitigating our impact on climate change.
closing the loop on rockwool’s 
materials
central to our approach, considering finite 
planetary resources and a growing population, 
is the belief that no recyclable material should 
be sent to landfill or incinerated but instead 
should be reused or upcycled/recycled into new 
products. building on decades of experience 
recycling construction materials, one of the 
key ways in which we are contributing to this 
objective is through our rockcycle® waste 
reclamation service. this brings stone wool 
1 european commission, 2020, construction and demolition waste
2 fiw (german test and research institute), durability project mineral wool, 2016
14 countries
where we offer a comprehensive 
recycling service to building 
sector customers.
sdg-12
expanding product 
recycling take-back 
services
7%
increase in collected 
and recycled stone 
wool from customers.
as the world’s population continues to grow, pressure on natural 
resources will only increase. in the building sector, for example, 
construction and demolition waste accounts for more than a third  
of all waste generated in the eu1. this brings into sharp focus the need 
for a circular economy, a system in which materials are used for longer 
times and at the end of their use are being reused or recycled rather 
than being disposed.  in a circular economy, there is not waste, just 
valuable resources. rockwool is pioneering construction industry 
recycling programmes.
waste from building sector customers back 
to our factories where it is recycled into new 
stone wool.  
in 2020, we introduced new rockcycle® schemes 
in austria, italy and the united kingdom, 
extending our offering from 11 to 14 countries. 
as a result, we are well on track to meet our 2022 
goal of offering comprehensive reclaimed waste 
services in 15 countries.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
18
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
50% 
reduction in waste  
to landfill
the disposal and recovery of materials through 
rockcycle® shows our commitment to the 
circular economy. by combining innovative technology 
with a highly effective service, we are reducing the 
amount of waste that goes to landfill, so minimising 
our impact on the environment and our use of natural 
resources”.
angelo luigi marchetti, ceo of marlegno s.r.l. 
(construction company)
1 european commission, 2016, 10 things you didn’t know about heating & cooling, https://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/ener/files/dg_energy_infographic_heatingandcolling2016.jpg 
2  fiw (german test and research institute), durability project mineral wool, 2016
we are helping design  
out energy waste by up to 
70%
the core circular economy principles 
in action 
here’s how we apply the three core principles of the circular 
economy (as defined by the ellen macarthur foundation) 
across the rockwool business.  
designing out waste 
our high-quality insulation products for buildings help 
design out energy waste by up to 70 percent1. furthermore, 
by reclaiming and recycling our products, and also using 
waste streams from other industries, we’re reducing overall 
waste across the construction and manufacturing sectors. 
keeping products and materials in use
tests show that our insulation maintains its functionality 
and integrity for more than 55 years2, providing the same 
thermal quality as on the day it was produced.
regenerating natural systems 
by decarbonising our production, reducing energy 
waste and our dependence on virgin raw materials, 
and minimising the overall carbon footprint of the built 
environment, we are contributing to creating a healthier, 
more prosperous, and more circular society.
made from natural 
& abundant materials
fully 
recyclable
highly 
durable
easy to 
disassemble
contains recycled 
materials
fire safe
does not contain substance of risk  
to human health and wellbeing
the circularity aspects of our products
sharing our learnings to build 
knowledge and capacity
as we roll out rockcycle® across different 
markets, we are learning a lot about how the 
circular economy works in practice – everything 
from logistics and regulation to how best to 
explain our service to customers. we are sharing 
these learnings with others in the construction 
sector, thus increasing capacity and knowledge 
of what works best in the built environment. 
moving towards zero waste 
production sites 
at the same time, we are significantly reducing 
the waste that we send to landfill from our 
production processes. we have set a target 
of reducing production-related waste going 
to landfill by 85 percent by 2030 compared to 
2015, with an interim 2022 goal of a 40 percent 
reduction. and in 2020, we hit our 2022 goal 
two years early by reducing landfill waste  
by 50 percent – an achievement of which we are 
very proud. 
rockwool sustainability report 2020
19
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
looking ahead - the challenges 
we face
despite our appetite to apply circular economy 
principles throughout the rockwool business, 
we do face significant barriers in making this 
happen. for example, waste classification codes 
and cross border limitations can make it difficult 
to collaborate across the value chain. we also 
face policy challenges such as low landfill fees, 
which discourage businesses from expanding 
their recycling. clearly, given that the built 
environment sector accounts for more than 30 
percent of the total waste and greenhouse gas 
emissions generated in the eu1, there is a need 
for stronger, more proactive regulation. 
there are opportunities too
eu climate action is already leading to positive 
change and we welcome the increased focus 
on the circularity of materials and products 
following the introduction of the new circular 
economy action plan. 
we are determined to play our part in achieving 
this vision and will continue to strengthen our 
circular business model through innovative 
collaborations 
with 
the 
ellen 
macarthur 
foundation where we explore and contribute 
to the body of knowledge on circular economy 
in the built environment and advocate for more 
conducive regulatory frameworks.  
1 european commission, 2020, in focus: energy efficiency in buildings
our products can contain up to
75%
recycled material in certain 
geographies and product lines
the circular economy will 
enable europe to manage 
and lower its resource dependency, 
improve competitiveness, reduce our 
environmental and climate impacts, 
and provide opportunities for new 
local jobs”. 
janez potočnik, 
co-chair of the international resource 
panel.
b2b grand prix award
rockwool france received the prestigious 
b2b grand prix award for the group’s innovative waste 
reclamation service rockcycle®.
matthieu biens, director of marketing and development 
at rockwool france, says: “we introduced rockcycle® 
into the french market in 2012. at the time, we were the first 
player in our industry to offer such a service. today, waste 
has become a critical issue in the construction industry, 
and we are perceived as the leading player, blazing a trail 
where others follow. now, architects and designers are 
keen to include this service as a ‘must’ on any site”.
Øster doense factory, denmark
rockwool sustainability report 2020
20
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
1 ellen macarthur foundation, 2019, cities and circular 
economy for food, https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.
org/assets/downloads/cceff_full-report-pages_may-
2019_web.pdf
2 center for urban education sustainability and agriculture, 
2021, how far does your food travel to get to your plate?, 
https://cuesa.org/learn/how-far-does-your-food-travel-
get-your-plate#:~:text=it%20is%20estimated%20that%20
the,large%20quantities%20of%20fossil%20fuels. 
3 chicago tribute, 2013, most produce loses 30 percent 
of nutrients three days after harvest, https://www.
chicagotribune.com/dining/ct-xpm-2013-07-10-chi-most-
produce-loses-30-percent-of-nutrients-three-days-after-
harvest-20130710-story.html
4 80 acres farms, 2020, our story, https://www.80acresfarms.
com/our-story/
2017
2018
2019
2020
90 
94
101
109
water saved (thousand m³)  
by precision growing products 
sold compared to soil-based 
solutions
2017
2018
2019
2020
1 870
1 940
2 092
2 253
yield gain (kt) of vegetables  
by precision growing 
products sold compared to 
soil-based solutions
enabling growers to use 
53% 
less water to grow  
76% 
increased yields
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/sustainable-
growing/#methodology
sdg-6
enhancing water 
efficiency in horticulture
sdg-2
enabling more efficient 
food production
rethinking urban food supply 
chains
of course, the circular economy is not just about 
closing the loop of materials and reducing waste 
going to landfill – important though these are. 
circularity is also reshaping global thinking 
about how we use resources and assets across 
our daily activities and key value chains such as 
food production. here, our grodan hydroponic 
solutions have the potential to play an even 
greater role in future solutions.  
by 2050, 80 percent of all food will be consumed 
in cities1, increasing pressure on supply chains 
between urban centres and the peri-urban/
rural environment and making it important to  
improve 
yield 
productivity 
in 
resource 
constrained environments.
grodan hydroponic solutions enable growers 
to use 53 percent less water to grow and with  
a 76 percent increased yield compared to soil-
based solutions.
vertical farms
vertical farms are looking to change 
the way vegetables are grown and shipped 
to the customer. on average, food in the 
united states travels about 1500 miles2 
(2414 km), and loses on average 30 percent3 
of its nutritional value before it reaches the 
plate. because indoor vertical farms need far 
less land, are grown in stacked layers, and 
operate year-round, these innovators in the 
farming sector can deliver fresher and tastier 
products more quickly to the customer. 
on top of that, one can avoid the extra 
fuel consumption and need for chemical 
preservatives for the produce to survive  
long hauls. 
one industry leader in this growing space is 
80 acres farms, which operates five pesticide 
free growing operations in the united states. 
using hydroponic solutions with grodan 
stone wool, its farms continue to boast the 
latest innovations in agriculture  resulting in 
over 300 times more food production than 
ordinary farms. what’s more the food is 
grown with 100 percent renewable energy 
and 97 percent less water consumption4.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
21
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
healthy and fire safe 
neighbourhoods 
buildings have a huge impact on our lives, affecting environmental, 
physical and mental health, productivity and child development. on 
average, we spend 90 percent of our time indoors1 and, over the last 
year, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we have spent even more 
time inside. rockwool products help achieve safe and healthy 
indoor environments, improving acoustics and thermal comfort 
without exposing home and building occupants to hazardous materials,  
in addition to enhancing buildings’ fire resilience. 
fire safety
as people continue moving to cities leading 
to 
increasingly 
densely 
populated 
urban 
environments, fire safety takes on even greater 
significance. people naturally want to live, work, 
learn, and recover in buildings that will help keep 
them safe. 
policymakers, regulators, building owners and 
contractors, financiers, insurance companies, 
and construction product manufacturers have a 
profound responsibility to ensure that buildings 
are designed, constructed, renovated, and 
maintained with personal safety and building 
resilience foremost in mind. 
especially for high-rise and high-risk buildings 
such as schools, care facilities, or other structures 
from which emergency evacuations could take 
extra time, it is essential for fire safety that new 
construction and renovations use building 
materials such as insulation and cladding that are 
non-combustible. as europe seeks to double 
building renovation rates by the end of this 
decade, this becomes even more important.
the 2017 grenfell tower fire tragedy in london 
reminds everyone that renovating for energy 
efficiency or aesthetic improvement must never 
come at the expense of fire safety – and nor does 
it have to, as there are many non-combustible 
building materials available on the market. 
at rockwool group, we will continue to 
advocate for fire safety regulations that require 
non-combustible insulation and cladding on 
high-rise and high-risk buildings. the best 
approach for such buildings is straightforward: 
keep it simple, keep it safe.
1 neil e. klepeis, 2001, the national human activity pattern survey (nhaps): a resource for assessing exposure to environmental pollutants
2 sfpe connectedcommunity.org, 2015, fires in photovoltaic systems: lessons learned from fire investigations in italy
where non-combustible insulation and photo-voltaic solar 
power go hand in hand
whilst it makes sense to utilise suitable roof spaces for pv panels to produce electricity for 
the grid, it is not without risk. 
the number of fire incidents involving rooftop pv panels has increased in the last 
decade2, which raises concerns regarding fire risk and the implications the panels have for 
accelerating the spread of fire. 
here the installation of non-combustible stone wool insulation can play an important 
role in protecting people and property. rockwool is currently collaborating with the 
university of edinburgh in a research project to better understand these risks and how 
best to mitigate them.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
22
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
before
after
after
bièvre towers – when being 
fire-safe is beautiful
rockpanel 
woods 
exterior 
cladding 
and 
rockwool insulation products were chosen to 
give aging residential towers a new natural and 
harmonious look, where fire safety is the number 
one priority. 
the bièvre towers are located in the town of 
antony, just 11 km outside the centre of paris. 
as the housing complex was outdated, their 
improved new looks delighted the residents – 
as did the peace of mind knowing that the non-
combustible stone wool insulation dramatically 
improved their safety.
in high-rise buildings, fire safety is key. “after 
we had done our research very thoroughly, we 
decided to choose a combination of stone wool 
insulation from rockwool and rockpanel 
woods and colours for the façade cladding’’, 
explains 
irèna 
morawiec, 
from 
architecte 
associée groupe, arcane architectes, who 
was tasked with designing the upgrade of the 
bièvre towers and adds, “rockpanel woods 
look as much like real wood. i find it absolutely 
astonishing”. 
the new eye-catching exterior of the towers also 
contributes to the general attractiveness of the 
neighbourhood overall.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
23
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
the importance of healthy  
indoor climate
the temperature, light, and air quality in a 
building can have a significant impact on our 
health. for example, temperatures that are 
too cold or warm, draughts, humidity and 
dampness can each lead to mould. this, in turn,  
can cause asthma and respiratory diseases. 
studies show that:
• people living in damp homes1 are 40 percent 
more likely to have asthma2;
• staff performance decreases by six percent3 
when offices are too warm; and,
• poor air circulation in buildings can lead to 
numerous health issues e.g. fatigue, nausea, 
headache and coughing4. 
energy renovation using rockwool solutions 
can limit these problems. 
looking more specifically at acoustics, noise can 
also have a detrimental impact on our wellbeing 
1 world health organisation, 2009, dampness and mould, https://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/43325/e92645.pdf
2 fraunhofer ibp, 2016, mould and dampness in european homes and their impact on health,  
https://www.ibp.fraunhofer.de/content/dam/ibp/ibp-neu/de/dokumente/publikationen/eer/report-mould-dampness-impact-on-health.pdf
3 world green building council, 2016, https://www.worldgbc.org/news-media/green-offices-keep-staff-healthy-and-happy-are-improving-productivity-boosting-businesses
4 buildings2030, november 2017, building 4 people, white paper: people-centric buildings for european citizens
5 united states environmental protection agency, 2009, noise and its effects on children – information for parents, teachers, and childcare providers
with continued exposure to elevated noise levels 
negatively affecting our health, increasing stress 
levels, and stifling productivity4.
in schools, for example, elevated noise can 
prevent 
children 
from 
hearing 
teachers, 
influencing speech intelligibility5. optimising 
acoustics in new and renovated buildings is 
therefore important for healthy childhood 
development. 
rockfon 
products 
play 
an 
important role in enabling students to clearly 
hear and understand their teachers and thus 
improving their learning conditions.
in 2020, rockfon became a keystone member of 
the international well being institute (iwbi). this 
partnership reflects our commitment to create 
products and solutions that bring value to the 
spaces and increase wellbeing and productivity. 
it also shows our eagerness to improve and 
interact with other ambitious institute members 
who share the same values and aspirations 
towards wellbeing as we do.
1.8 million
students
with improved learning conditions 
due to acoustics solutions 
delivered to schools in 2020.
sdg-3
reducing noise and creating 
acoustically sound buildings
through the international well being institute (iwbi) membership program, 
rockfon is taking action to leverage iwbi’s expertise and play a leading role 
in prioritising ‘people first’ places. as a keystone member, the company demonstrates 
a commitment to advancing health and wellbeing through collaboration, advocacy and 
innovation”, said iwbi chief commercial officer jessica cooper.
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/acoustic-impact/
rockwool sustainability report 2020
24
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
rockfon and rockwool 
uk helped build temporary 
hospitals in uk during the first 
wave of covid pandemic – a fast 
response during extraordinary 
conditions
rockfon and rockwool uk played a role in 
helping the united kingdom get its ‘nightingale 
hospitals’ up and running faster than ever. the 
national health service (nhs) nightingale 
hospitals are seven temporary critical care 
hospitals in various cities in uk.
building the hospitals required a coordinated 
effort 
across 
the 
construction 
industry, 
with contractors, distributors, installers and 
manufacturers all playing a crucial role to help the 
nhs. rockfon and rockwool uk supported 
that effort, with their teams able to respond 
quickly with delivery times of less than 48 hours. 
“improving people’s wellbeing in interiors is 
what we are good at, and here it is in action”, 
says nigel watkins, rockfon sales director for 
uk & roi. “that we can provide practical and 
impactful assistance to covid-19 patients and 
the nhs in this time is humbling and really makes 
me proud. working under such time pressure 
with so much at stake has helped us cement 
relationships with our main contractors and 
installers and shows what the construction sector 
can do when it puts its mind to it and works 
together for a common good”.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
25
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
this factbook offers  
investors and other interested 
stakeholders a deeper look  
at rockwool group’s 
sustainability priorities, including 
our material issues, how we operate 
as a responsible business and 
maintain compliance, and respect 
human rights as well as our progress 
on sustainability goals and the sdgs.
in this section
28    product impacts and other indirect 
         impacts
29     climate and energy
30     environmental management 
31     waste and recycling
32     safety and social issues
34     corporate governance
35    accounting principles
38    limited assurance report
39    esg performance
factbook 
and data 
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
27
indicator
value
2018
2019
2020 
note
sdg
carbon emissions avoided 
in the lifetime of building 
insulation sold
mt co2
206
201
186
1
13
carbon emissions avoided 
in the lifetime of industrial 
insulation sold
mt co2
1 176
1 000
796
1
13
energy saved in the lifetime of 
building insulation sold
twh
908
888
874
1
7
energy saved in the lifetime of 
technical insulation sold
twh
5 372
4 554
3 572
1
7
pm air emissions avoided 
in the lifetime of building 
insulation sold
kt
85
79
62
2
7
so2 air emissions avoided 
in the lifetime of building 
insulation sold
kt
256
246
224
2
7
nox air emissions avoided 
in the lifetime of building 
insulation sold
kt
302
295
264
2
7
water saved by precision 
growing products sold
thousand m³
94
101 
109
3
6
fertiliser saved by precision 
growing products sold
t
 15 810
17 059
18 366
3
2
land use reduction by precision 
growing products sold
ha
27 469
29 639
31 910
3
2
yield gain of vegetables by 
precision growing products sold
kt
1 940
2 092
2 253
3
2
stone wool collected and 
recycled through rockwool 
recycling services
t
123 000
152 000
163 000
4
12
we track multiple metrics that quantify how 
rockwool products benefit society and, 
more specifically, drive progress on the  
un sdgs. 
sdg performance: product and other indirect impact metrics
1   energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of our sold building insulation and technical insulation products is 
calculated following methodology developed by guidehouse, who also validate the annual results.  
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/carbon-impact/#methodology
2   annual avoided air emissions from heating energy production as a result of our sold building insulation calculated using 
methodology developed by guidehouse, who also validate the annual results.  
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/carbon-impact/#methodology
3   quantitative comparison between soil-based cultivation systems and stone wool systems using methodology developed by 
wageningen university & research. 
   see https://www.rockwool.com/group/sustainable-growing/#methodology
4   stone wool building insulation received at our factories for recycling and estimated dry weight of stone wool growth media 
recycled. 2018 and 2019 values are adjusted by excluding reclaimed packaging waste (plastic and pallets).
5   the impact on learning conditions from acoustic products sold is calculated using a methodology developed by rambøll,  
who also validates the annual result. in 2020, some of the underlying research in the methodology was updated by rambøll 
and applied for 2018 and 2019.  
see https://www.rockwool.com/group/acoustic-impact/
6   contribution to jobs and growth from rockwool group’s global activities is calculated following a methodology developed 
by copenhagen economics. 
   see https://www.rockwool.com/group/socioeconomic-impact/
product impacts and other 
indirect impacts 
indicator
value
2018
2019
2020 
note
sdg
significantly improved learning 
environments from acoustic 
solutions sold
number of 
students
1 666 000
1 994 000
1 846 000
5
3
significantly improved learning 
environments from acoustic 
solutions sold
number of 
teachers
82 511
97 115
90 085
5
3
jobs due to rockwool 
group’s global operations 
(direct & indirect with suppliers)
fte
40 000
35 000
6
8
economic value created due to 
rockwool group’s global 
operations (direct & indirect)
eurm
2 757
2 602
6
8
economic value of energy 
saved by rockwool 
insulation products
eurm
77 000
55 000
6
8
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
28
operational performance:  
climate and energy
reducing production-related emissions has 
long been a focus of our climate efforts. to 
support this long-term focus and further guide 
our climate commitments, in 2020 we signed up 
for the science based targets initiative (sbti). 
as a result, we have set science-based targets 
to reduce factory absolute greenhouse gas 
emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 38 percent and 
non-factory, absolute lifecycle greenhouse gas 
emissions (scope 3) by 20 percent by 2034, 
both relative to a 2019 baseline. these targets 
equate to an ambitious one-third reduction 
of rockwool’s lifecycle greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2034.
we are already reaping the benefits of 
substantial investments in new technology. in 
december 2020, we started production on the 
industry’s largest electrical melter, an investment 
supported by the norwegian ministry of climate 
and energy-owned enova. we have also 
developed industry-leading fuel-flexible melting 
technology that allows us to shift from coal to 
less carbon-intensive fuels such as natural gas 
or biogas in the facilities where this technology 
is being used. in 2020, our two danish factories 
were converted to natural gas and in january 
2021, to certified climate-neutral biogas.
in 2020,  our factory related absolute greenhouse 
gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2) declined by 
10 percent and non-factory, absolute lifecycle 
greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) declined by 
11 percent, both compared to 2019. 
these absolute greenhouse gas emission 
reduction targets supplement our sustainability 
goal to improve the carbon intensity (tonne of 
co2 per tonne of stone wool produced) at our 
stone wool production facilities by 20 percent 
by 2030 with an interim goal of 10 percent by 
2022, both compared to 2015. in 2020, our 
carbon intensity improved, resulting in an overall 
intensity of nine percent less than in 2015. 
examples of key actions that contributed to 
these improvements are:
• conversion of our two danish factories to 
natural gas;
• improvements in the melting process and 
production efficiency at our factories in 
elabuga, russia and grand forks, british 
columbia; and,
• purchase of guarantees of origin for the 
electricity we consume at our norwegian and 
polish factories.
the 2020 decline in production volumes reduced 
the positive impact of these actions on the co2 
intensity goal whilst having a positive impact on 
the ghg absolute goals. 
despite delays in completion of scheduled office 
renovations, six renovation investments were 
approved in 2020, and two office renovations 
were completed in early 2021.
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020 note
greenhouse 
gas emissions
total direct and indirect greenhouse 
gas emissions (ghg)
305-1,
305-2
mt co2e
2.22
2.05
1.85
1, 2
total reduction in direct and indirect 
ghg (scope 1+2), (sbt)
305-1,
305-2
index
90
1, 3
total direct and indirect co2 emissions
305-2
mt co2
1.89
1.74
1.56
1, 2
co2 direct (scope 1)
305-1
mt co2
1.54
1.41
1.35
1, 2
co2 indirect (scope 2), market-based 
emissions
305-2
mt co2
0.34
0.33
0.21
1
co2 indirect (scope 2), location-based 
emissions
305-2
mt co2
0.37
0.34
0.30
co2 intensity direct (scope 1) 
per tonne stone wool 
305-4
index
97
96
97
1, 4
co2 intensity indirect (scope 2) per 
tonne stone wool
305-4
index
91
93
64
1
co2 intensity direct and indirect 
(scope 1+2) per tonne stone wool
305-4
index
96
96
91
1, 6
total indirect ghg emissions (scope 3)
305-3
mt co2e
0.97
0.87
1
total reduction in indirect ghg (scope 
3), (sbt)
305-3
index
89
1, 3
energy
energy consumption
302-1
gwh
5 428
5 064
4 835
1
energy per tonne stone wool
302-3
index
98
99
100
1
energy efficiency in own buildings
n.a
index
100
94
95
5, 6
progress against our sustainability goals
1 the new factory in romania started operations in 2019 and 
is included in the 2019 and 2020 data.
2 minor adjustment made to align with the emissions verified 
by eu-ets after the issuing of the 2019 sustainability report.
3 baseline 2019. the scope 3 data excludes the swiss and 
chinese factories acquired in 2017 and 2018 respectively.
4 2018 value corrected.
5 inconsistencies in the documentation have resulted in lower 
improvement in 2020 compared to 2019.
6 baseline 2015.
absolute lifecycle 
greenhouse gas emissions 
(co2e) science-based target
our goal: reduce non-factory, absolute 
lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 
by 20 percent by 2034
2020
2019 
baseline
2034 goal
20%
11% 
sdg
13
absolute factory 
greenhouse gas emissions 
(co2e) science-based target
our goal: reduce factory absolute 
greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2)  
by 38 percent by 2034
2020
2019 
baseline
2034 goal
38%
10% 
sdg
13
our goal: reduce co2 emission intensity 
(co2/t stone wool) from our stone wool 
production facilities by 20% by 2030  
(10% by 2022)
co2 emissions
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
9% 10%
our goal: reduce energy consumption 
(kwh/m2) within own (non-renovated) 
offices by 75% by 2030 (35% by 2022)
energy efficiency
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
35%
5% 
sdg
13
sdg
7
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
29
operational performance:  
environmental management
rockwool’s environmental management 
work is guided by our safety, health and 
environment (she) policy and iso 14001:2015 
with the overall objective of  minimising the 
environmental impacts of our production.
our production facilities are subject to strict 
air quality regulations that aim to protect 
sensitive population groups, wildlife, and the 
local environment. in addition with complying 
with local, national and international legislation 
as a minimum, we have internal mandatory 
minimum requirements for a number of 
environmental areas. in cases where our own 
requirements exceed legal requirements, our 
requirements prevail. 
safety, 
health 
and 
environmental 
risk 
assessments are carried out at each of our 
factories, their performance is audited and 
any cases of non-compliance and non-
conformance are addressed. the audits are 
based on iso 14001:2015 standard and also 
incorporate our own standards and policies 
together with local legal requirements. in 
2020, 77 percent of our stone wool production 
facilities had at least one external certification 
within safety, health, environment or energy 
management and several facilities were 
certified across all areas.
due 
to 
the 
covid-19 
pandemic, 
we 
postponed most of our scheduled internal 
group she audits. in 2020, 183 audits were 
performed, 
which 
were 
a 
combination 
of 
covid-19 
specific 
inspections 
and 
audits by environmental, health and safety  
related authorities. 
water management
the main focus of our water management 
strategy is to reduce freshwater use and 
ensure there is no discharge of wastewater 
into the environment. therefore, we have 
designed our production processes for zero 
wastewater discharge to the environment. at 
most of our sites, we recycle production water 
in a closed-loop system, with much of the 
water evaporating as part of the process. for 
the remaining sites, wastewater is discharged 
to 
public 
wastewater 
treatment 
plants.  
as a result, water effluent is not a material 
issue for us. 
in 2016, we set a sustainability goal to reduce 
the water intensity per tonne of stone wool 
by 20 percent by 2030, with an interim 
target of 10 percent by 2022. our factory in 
tapolca, hungary reduced its water intensity 
by 34 percent in 2020, mainly through the 
implementation of a closed cooling system. 
water leakages at our factory in saint-eloy 
les mines, france contributed to an increase 
in water intensity in the first half of 2020. 
improvement actions were implemented in 
the second half of the year, which partially 
addressed this increase. 
nevertheless, more than 70 percent of 
our factories have achieved a significant 
improvement in their water intensity, resulting 
in meeting the interim goal two years early. 
we will continue our focus on improving water 
intensity in pursuit of our 2030 goal.
in 2020, 6% of our water 
came from rainwater 
harvesting
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020 note 
environmental
laws and
regulations –
non-compliance
factories certified to iso 14001 
and/or iso 45001 and/or 
iso 50001
n.a
number
22
23
24
1
share of factories certified to iso 
14001 and/or iso 45001and/or 
iso 50001
n.a
%
78
79
77
audits for environment,
health, safety
n.a
number
186
201
183
fines – monetary value
307-1
eurk
2
8
20
non-monetary sanctions
n.a
number
0
5
4
air emissions
nox intensity
305-7
index
130
103
115
2, 3
so2 intensity
305-7
index
68
66
86
2, 3
co intensity
305-7
index
3
4
3
2, 3
ammonia intensity
305-7
index
93
90
90
2, 3
phenol intensity
305-7
index
98
81
80
2, 3
formaldehyde intensity
305-7
index
79
90
106
2, 3
particulate matter (pm10) 
intensity
305-7
index
122
110
112
2, 3
water 
consumption
water consumption total
303-5
million m³
3.94
3.49
3.23
4
water intensity  
(m3/t stone wool)
303-5
index
97
93
90
4, 5
water consumption excl. 
rainwater
303-5
million m³
3.78
3.33
3.05
4
total water consumption from all 
areas with water stress
303-5
million m³
0.28
0.23
0.22
4
water withdrawal
groundwater own abstraction
303-3
million m³
1.29
1.04
0.99
4
municipal water a.o. utilities
303-3
million m³
2.21
1.97
1.77
4
rainwater own abstraction
303-3
million m³
0.16
0.16
0.18
4
surface water own abstraction
303-3
million m³
0.29
0.31
0.29
4
progress against our sustainability goals
our goal: reduce water intensity  
(m3/t stone wool) from our stone wool 
production facilities by 20% by 2030  
(10% by 2022) 
water consumption
2020
2015
baseline
2022 goal
10%
sdg
6
1   24 factories are iso 14001 certified (environmental management), 11 factories are iso 45001 certified (occupational safety & 
health management) and nine factories are iso 50001 certified (energy management).
2   the new factory in romania is only included in the 2020 data. 2019 and 2020 data also includes a factory acquired in china in 2018.
3  the air emissions data has some uncertainty and are dependent on nationally prescribed methods, sampling frequency, sampling 
methods and laboratories. emission measurements can vary a great deal based on the representativeness of the samples taken, 
flow measurements and sampling techniques, as well as the method of analysis.
4  the new factory in romania, started operations in 2019 and is included in 2019 and 2020 data.
5   baseline 2015.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
30
operational performance:  
waste and recycling
reclaimed waste schemes 
rockwool 
has 
set 
a 
goal 
to 
offer 
comprehensive recycling services for our 
products in 30 countries by 2030.  since 
making the commitment in 2016, we have 
worked across multiple markets to develop 
the capacities and competences required to 
implement effective collection systems. 
in 2020, we introduced new waste reclamation 
services in italy, austria and the united king-
dom, bringing the total number of countries 
where we offer the rockcycle® service to 14. 
this means we are well on track to meet our 
interim 2022 target of 15 countries. 
over the coming year we will expand rock-
cycle® further and also make operational im-
provements to our existing services. 
our efforts to increase the recycling of stone 
wool products are not limited to the prod-
ucts themselves. in 2020, at our factory in 
roermond, the netherlands, we started to 
use transparent packaging on a range of our 
products, where both the number of inks used 
and their coverage on the packaging has been 
reduced. this has increased the recyclability of 
the plastic. 
landfill waste from production
we also have a goal to reduce operations-
related waste going to landfill by 85 percent 
by 2030 compared to 2015, with an interim 
2022 goal of a 40 percent reduction. in 
2020, we achieved our interim goal two years 
early, reducing all waste sent to landfill by 50 
percent. going forward we will continue our 
efforts to meet our 2030 goal.
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020
note
waste
total waste generated
306-2
t
218 501
208 536
172 492
total hazardous waste 
generated
306-2
t
18 236
21 148
12 573
waste landfilled
306-2
t
95 830
78 387
45 821
1, 2
landfill waste from 
factories
306-2
index
105
84
50
1, 2, 3
waste for external 
recycling
306-2
t
87 123
103 784
85 414
waste for external 
recovery (energy)
306-2
t
2 997
2 652
675
other external waste 
disposal
n.a
t
33 141
23 713
40 582
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020
note
recycling
recycling of waste 
from other industries
n.a
t
622 559
627 485
573 649
1
average % recycled 
content
301-2
%
24
26
25
post-consumer stone 
wool reclaimed and 
recycled
306-2
t
123 000
152 000
163 000
2
number of countries 
with comprehensive 
insulation reclaimed 
waste schemes
n.a countries
11
11
14
3
1  baseline adjusted, due to data inconsistencies.
2  the new factory in romania started operations in 2019 and is included in the 2019 and 2020 data.
3 baseline 2015. 
1  2019 data was adjusted.
2 excluding internally recycled production waste. 2018 and 2019 values are adjusted by excluding reclaimed packaging waste 
(plastic and pallets).
3 baseline 2015.
progress against our sustainability goals
one example of how we were able to achieve 
this is at our factory in troitsk, russia.  in 2020, 
we completed the construction of  a new 
briquette plant, which enables us to remelt 
stone wool waste thereby ensuring a closed 
loop wool waste system. 
at our factory in guangzhou, china the 
amount of waste disposed of at landfill has 
been significantly reduced  by partnering with 
an external contractor, who will be recycling 
the waste and making bricks. 
our goal: increase the number of 
countries where we offer recycling 
services for our products to 30 by 2030 
(15 by 2022)
reclaimed waste
2020
2015 
baseline
2022 goal
14
15
our goal: reduce landfill waste (tonnes) 
from our stone wool production facilities 
by 85% by 2030 (40% by 2022)
landfill waste
2015 
baseline
2020
2022 goal
50%
40%
sdg
12
sdg
12
gladbeck, germany
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
31
we continuously aim to protect our employees 
and ensure productive and inclusive working 
environment for all.
human rights commitment 
in 2020, we published our approach to 
human rights in the form of a human rights 
commitment, a commitment we have had 
internally for a number of years. we support the 
united nations universal declaration of human 
rights and the universal principles defined 
in the un global compact relating to human 
rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 
we oppose any kind of discrimination due to 
age, gender, race, colour, religion, political 
opinion, social origin, or any other personal 
characteristic. our employees have the right 
to collective bargaining and freedom of 
association. we are opposed to child labour 
and do not use forced or compulsory labour 
or knowingly engage with business partners  
that do so.
as is the case with all group policies, the 
managing director of each global business 
unit and group function heads are responsible 
for ensuring that our commitment to human 
rights is fully understood and implemented. 
they are also responsible for reporting any 
operational performance:  
safety and social issues
breaches of group policies and the group  
code of conduct.
bringing diversity to our industry
it is our ambition to achieve greater diversity in 
the workforce, both in relation to gender, age 
and ethnic origin and in relation to education, 
experience and personality. we are continuously 
working to support diversity in our management 
teams and group departments and offer 
learning 
and 
development 
opportunities  
to all employees.
in 2020, the overall ratio of females to males 
in the company remained stable with an 18/82 
split. among middle management, the ratio 
of women is higher and similarly stable over 
time. in 2018, group management set a target 
of 25-35 percent female leaders in executive 
and middle management positions. in 2020, 27 
percent of all leaders in middle management 
positions were female, including 44 percent of 
new hires. in 2020, as in 2019, two members of 
the group management were female.
another target for 2020 was to have at least 
one shareholder-elected female member of 
the board of directors by the end of the year. 
we achieved this in april 2020 with rebekka 
herlofsen joining the board. we have now 
set a new target to achieve 33 percent female 
representation among our shareholder-elected 
members by 2024. 
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020
workplace diversity
percentage of female 
leaders in executive and 
middle management 
positions
n.a.
%
27
27
27
share of women in  
new hires for middle 
manager positions
n.a.
%
39
29
44
rockwool russia takes home 
the hr brand 2019 award
in september 2020, rockwool russia 
won the russian hr brand 2019 award for 
its campaign on sustainable development, 
based 
on 
group’s 
#irockglobalgoals 
campaign. the campaign focuses on helping 
employees to incorporate more sustainable 
habits into their work life as well as their 
home life. to achieve this, rockwool 
russia’s hr department introduced various 
education programmes, workshops and 
seminars to further extend employee 
knowledge about sustainability and how 
to implement sustainable actions into their 
everyday routines, such as using electricity 
and water more efficiently, recycling waste, 
and more.
the hr brand award is one of the most 
prestigious awards in the country and 
given annually by the country’s largest hr 
and recruitment website, recognising best 
practices in human resources and personnel 
management. rockwool russia came out 
on top among 146 other nominees.
hr brand award, rockwool russia
hr brand award
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
32
safe and healthy workplaces 
rockwool group employs approximately  
11500 employees. as an industrial company, 
we recognise that our employees face potential 
safety risks. we take these risks seriously and 
continuously work to create safe and healthy 
workplaces and conditions for all our employees 
and contractors around the world.
our approach to health and safety is guided 
by our safety, health and environment policy. 
managing directors in our operating companies 
are responsible for ensuring their business 
unit conforms with group policy, is correctly 
implementing health and safety procedures, 
carrying out relevant risk assessments and giving 
regular health and safety training to employees.
every year, we evaluate the safety performance 
of our factories against three key criteria: lost 
time incident (lti) rate, day away restricted 
time rate (dart) and medical treatment 
rate (mt). factories that demonstrate a high 
level of commitment and progress in their 
overall approach to safety, their planning to 
minimise safety risks, training for employees 
and resolution of any safety incidents are 
awarded a gold award by the group. the 2020 
safety performance awards will be handed out  
in april 2021.
in 2020, the covid-19 pandemic introduced 
new unprecedented health risks and this led 
to many of our employees working from home 
during the year. in the second half of the year, 
production resumed at all our factories, and local 
outbreaks of covid-19 were handled effectively, 
with employee safety our first concern.  
we have an annual goal of zero fatalities and a 
minimum 10 percent annual improvement in the 
lost time incident (lti) rate. we had no fatalities 
in 2020, and although we had fewer lost time 
incidents in 2020 compared to 2019, the lti 
rate, based on the number of hours worked, 
was three percent higher in 2020, at 3.0. since 
a number of our factories needed to reduce 
production hours, due to the lower demand 
during the pandemic, the number of hours 
worked was reduced. 
community engagement
rockwool’s 
factories 
are 
essential 
to 
the group’s success and also benefit local 
communities, 
creating 
jobs 
and 
bringing 
investment. 
we 
work 
hard 
to 
maintain 
constructive, positive relations with these local 
communities, both at existing facilities and new 
factories under construction. 
in 2020, our factory in moss, norway won the 
moss region’s enterpreneurship and business 
award, recognising rockwool moss’ efforts 
in innovation,  entrepreneurship and job creation 
in the region. in addition, rockwool france 
received ecovadis gold certificate for their 
commitments 
to 
environmental 
protection 
and circularity both at local and international 
community levels. 
in relation to rockwool’s newest production 
facility nearing completion in west virginia, usa, 
a group of local citizens filed a complaint with 
the danish mediation and complaints-handling 
institution for responsible business conduct 
alleging non-observance with various oecd 
guidelines for multinational enterprises. while a 
final resolution is expected in mid-2021, we are 
entirely confident that we have planned and are 
executing the project respecting all local and 
international requirements. factory start-up is 
expected mid-year, and we are pleased to see 
significant interest in employment and economic 
development opportunities from the local 
community. 
in 2020, as in previous years, 23 percent of our 
dividend goes to rockwool foundation 
to contribute to the foundation’s work e.g. 
developing initiatives to support children’s 
active participation in society through education, 
employment 
and 
community 
engagement.  
for 
more 
information 
on 
rockwool 
foundation initiatives and programmes visit 
www.rockwoolfonden.dk/en. 
1   the new factory in romania started operations in 2019 and is included in 2019 and 2020 data.
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020
note
workplace 
safety
fatalities
403-9
number
1
1
-
frequency of lti 
– employees & 
contractors (per 
million hours worked)
403-9
no./mill 
hours
3.5
2.9
3.0
1
annual improvement 
in lti frequency
403-9
%
12
17
-3
1
progress against our sustainability goals
rockwool poland recognised 
as a trustworthy employer
in 2020, rockwool poland received the 
national trustworthy employer award, in the 
safety category. the award is an initiative 
by the polish chamber of commerce and 
the foundation of the polish promotional 
emblem ‘teraz polska’ in cooperation with 
other 
non-governmental 
organisations, 
universities and ministries. it recognises 
organisations 
with 
outstanding 
health 
and safety policy and effective, innovative 
solutions. rockwool poland received 
the award for its engaging staff training 
promoting safe behaviour and culture. 
zero fatalities in 2020
our goal: reduce lti frequency rate by 
10% and ensure zero fatalities annually
safety, health and wellbeing
2020
goal
2019 
baseline
2020
10%
-3%
sdg
8
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
33
operational performance:  
corporate governance
business ethics  
our code of conduct sets out how rockwool 
group does business with integrity. it includes 
group policies on anti-corruption, gifts and 
hospitality, conflict of interest, competition law, 
data privacy, human rights, labour rights, health 
and safety, and the environment.
throughout 2020 all new employees have 
completed the code of conduct e-learning as 
part of their enrolment process. this emphasises 
the importance of our code of conduct right 
from the start. following on from e-learning 
sessions conducted globally in 2019, around 
6 000 targeted employees have been asked to 
complete our code of conduct e-learning at 
the start of 2021. 
all employees are encouraged and required to 
report activities that they know or suspect to be 
in breach of the rockwool code of conduct. 
they can report their concerns to management, 
the group integrity officer or by using the 
established whistleblower procedure. we do 
not accept any form of negative employment 
consequences for employees reporting in 
good faith instances of actual or suspected  
non-conformance. 
in 2020, we updated our whistleblower reporting 
tool such that employees and third parties can 
now report any suspicions either online or using 
the rockethics whistleblower app. reporting 
is possible in multiple languages and can be  
done anonymously.
in 2020, 16 potential cases were reported 
through the whistleblower system. nine of 
them qualified under the whistleblower policy 
and were handled per established procedure, 
and decided by the integrity committee. 
the nine cases compare to 13 in 2019 and 
included two cases each of fraud, conflict of 
interest, safety issues and harassment; and one 
involved bribery. investigations into most of the 
cases have been completed, while several are 
pending completion. so far, two employees 
have been dismissed and one employee is 
subject to disciplinary actions. other cases have 
resulted in corrective actions. 
working with third parties
rockwool group has zero tolerance towards 
any kind of fraud, corruption, bribery and 
facilitation payments. our anti-corruption policy 
also applies to suppliers, agents and other third 
parties. in 2020, we updated our risk assessment 
of fraud, corruption and bribery. this followed 
interviews with sales, finance, procurement, legal 
and management teams across the group. as a 
result of the updated risk assessment, we are 
implementing new measures to reduce the risk 
of corruption and bribery.  
respecting 
human 
rights 
and 
supply chain due diligence
we are committed to respect human rights 
as outlined in the united nations universal 
declaration of human rights and the un global 
compact. we expect our suppliers to enforce 
the same high standards in their own supply 
chains and set out these expectations in our 
supplier code of conduct.  
in 2019, we evaluated the sustainability risks 
related to three overall areas: human rights and 
labour rights; environment; and anti-corruption 
and bribery across the countries in which we 
currently operate and the type of materials and 
services we procure. this work resulted in the 
development of a risk matrix tool that we will 
use to proactively manage and limit potential 
sustainability-related 
risks 
from 
high-risk 
category suppliers.
the integration of the risk matrix tool in our 
supplier due diligence processes has been 
delayed and is planned to be initiated in 2021.
responsible tax
rockwool group strongly believes that 
responsible corporate citizenship includes 
practising responsible tax management and 
paying taxes in a timely manner.  
in terms of sustainability, we recognise that 
taxes are the primary source of revenue for 
governments around the world, and are 
therefore a key lever to achieve the un sdgs. 
as such, by paying the right amount of tax, at 
the right place, at the right time, rockwool 
supports governments’ ability to drive initiatives 
in all sdgs.
we have processes and controls in place to 
ensure timely and accurate tax compliance.  
when deciding where to locate rockwool 
business entities, our decision-making is driven 
by commercial considerations and not by the 
desire to engage in aggressive tax planning. 
rockwool does not have a legal presence 
in any of the countries listed on the eu’s 
blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions and 
we actively monitor both the eu and oecd’s 
list of uncooperative jurisdictions.
we seek to develop open, cooperative 
relationships with tax authorities. we are 
transparent about our tax positions and, when 
asked for documentation or reasonings, provide 
the necessary information in a straightforward 
and timely manner.  
group tax policy sets out our overall guiding 
policies on tax governance and controls. all 
tax matters, including governance, risk and 
controls, are operationally managed and 
monitored by the chief financial officer and 
group tax department, working closely with 
the finance managers of rockwool global 
business units.
key areas of our tax management focus in 2020 
were: 
    1. tax compliance processes: in 2020, we 
initiated the development of a tax control 
framework to give us a centralised overview 
of tax filing compliance requirements and risk. 
based on this, we are introducing new controls, 
processes and instructions for staff to ensure 
compliance, timeliness and efficiency in our 
work. 
   2. transfer pricing compliance with oecd 
guidelines and local laws: we seek to secure 
stability in the interpretation of our transfer 
pricing setup by entering into advance pricing 
agreements (apas) in countries that are key to 
our commercial operations.
    3. tax incentives: during 2020, as a result of 
the covid-19 pandemic, several governments 
offered financial support packages in countries 
where rockwool operates. we made 
use of several beneficial rules, namely: the 
postponement 
of 
corporate 
income 
tax 
payments on account and vat payments; and 
the postponement of filing deadlines for tax 
and vat returns, transfer pricing documentation 
and the eu directive on cross-border tax 
arrangements (dac6) reporting requirements.
category
indicator
gri 
disclosure 
number
value
2018
2019
2020
anti-corruption
confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions taken
205-3
number
2
2
1
management 
approach 
disclosures
monetary value of significant 
fines and total number of 
non-monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with laws and 
regulations
419-1
eurk
-
-
-
legal actions for anti-
competitive behaviour, anti-trust 
and monopoly practices
206-1
eurk
-
-
-
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
34
accounting principles 
reporting period
our reporting covers the period from 1 january 
2020 to 31 december 2020.
the report focuses on the topics that we consider 
most important and material to our business 
and society, by taking into consideration inputs 
from all our stakeholders. we are committed to 
communicating openly about our performance 
with the goal to provide stakeholders with 
sufficient information about group’s sustainability 
performance, in order for them to form their own 
judgement about rockwool’s sustainability 
position, progress and role in the societies where 
we operate. 
among the entities included in this report’s 
performance data are subsidiaries in the 
rockwool group.
comments on environmental data scope 
and boundary 
in 2020, 30 stone wool factories out of 31 are 
included in the scope of the co2 emissions 
(scope 1 and scope 2), water consumption 
and waste to landfill environmental indicators, 
whilst all 31 stone wool factories are included 
in the scope of the air emissions and reclaimed 
waste.  activities related to grid and render 
manufacturing are excluded as their contribution 
to these environmental indicators is assessed to 
be insignificant. 
our new factory in romania started operation in 
september 2019 and is included from 2020. the 
chinese factory acquired in fourth quarter 2018, 
is included for air emissions, reclaimed waste 
and compliance indicators but not yet included 
for co2 emissions, water consumption and waste 
to landfill environmental indicators. our aim is to 
integrate acquisitions in our reporting as soon  
as possible.
the scope of the energy efficiency goal covers 
wholly owned office buildings, which are not 
rented buildings and have energy efficiency 
performance above 75 kwh/m2/yearly.
lifecycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 
(scope 3) are collected and calculated by 
taking into account the group’s upstream and 
downstream absolute ghg emissions within the 
reporting year. according to the greenhouse 
gas protocol, scope 3 emissions include all 
indirect emissions occurring in the group’s value 
chain and are categorised within 15 categories1.
comments on safety data scope and 
boundary
all rockwool locations are in scope, including 
factories, offices, construction sites, laboratories, 
warehouses, etc.
during 2020, we made two acquisitions: the 
sweden-based 
parafon 
acoustic 
ceiling 
business, now part of rockfon; and bestofire & 
thermal pte ltd, a singapore-based specialist 
supplying fire protection and thermal insulation. 
we plan to include the safety data from these 
two companies from 2021. there were no 
divestments during 2020.
all 
employees 
and 
working 
hours 
from 
contractors performing duties for rockwool 
group are included. two types of contractors are 
distinguished to manage risks and safety:
• permanent contractors with long term duties 
for or on behalf rockwool;
• occasional 
contractors 
(work 
on 
site, 
maintenance etc.) for which risk & method 
statement must be in place in advance, safety 
precaution and supervision implemented.
incidents involving permanent and occasional 
contractors are recorded and included in the lti 
rate. visitors, for example lorry drivers, school 
classes, external agencies etc., are not included 
in group lti rate, though all incidents are 
recorded and investigated. 
comments on compliance and 
management diversity data scope and 
boundary
in 2020, 31 stone wool factories are included in 
the scope of the compliance and management 
diversity indicators.
baseline
all environmental-related sustainability goals 
have 2015 as baseline year, whereas the previous 
reporting year is the baseline for the safety goal. 
in 2020, the 2015 baseline for landfill waste was 
reviewed and corrected due to identified errors 
and alignment, during the assurance process. 
process emissions in 2015, as part of the co2 
emissions, were calculated based on a group 
average. 
in 2020, we set absolute greenhouse gas 
emission targets for 2034 with baseline 2019, 
verified and approved by science based targets 
initiative.
sustainability data collection, calculations 
and consolidation
the calculation and reporting of co2 emissions 
(scope 1 and 2), water consumption and waste to 
landfill is supported by the same system used for 
the financial consolidation and reporting.
the 
data 
collection, 
calculations 
and 
consolidation of results for the safety goal are 
supported by a reporting tool. the working 
hours registered for employees and contractors 
are based on local systems. 
the lti, co2 emissions (scope 1 and 2), water 
consumption and waste to landfill data is provided 
by the factories, reviewed and signed off by local 
management and are therefore assessed to be 
complete and accurate to management’s best 
knowledge.
the group’s absolute lifecycle ghg emissions 
are collected within all applicable categories and 
are calculated on an annual basis by performing 
lifecycle assessment analysis based on en15804, 
using 
gabi 
professional 
software 
version 
9.2.1.68 and gabi database. the data is used 
in calculating the group’s progress to absolute 
lifecycle ghg emissions science-based target.
data controls
data trails have been mapped and risks identified 
with respect to completeness, accuracy, cut-off 
and existence, and where relevant, mitigating 
controls have been set up and completed. 
changes to historical data are only made if the 
impact hereof is more than one percent of the 
group’s aggregated data.
environmental, safety and compliance 
indicator definitions
environment data indicators
tonnes of stone wool produced
tonnes of stone wool produced is calculated as 
the total quantity of usable products produced 
by 
rockwool 
stone 
wool 
production 
factories included in the scope. the total value 
for the reporting period is the denominator 
for calculation of the co2 and water intensity 
goals. rockwool uses tonnes of stone 
wool as a standard measure for comparison 
as this is considered a suitable measure for 
the environmental impact associated with the 
production of our products. tonnes of stone 
wool is calculated based on the number of usable 
products produced on the line and accepted by 
the warehouse. the tonnes are calculated based 
on number of products, the nominal density and 
the nominal dimensions/volume of the products 
produced, corrected for any  odd-size waste  
not recycled.
1 ghg protocol, scope 3 guidance, 2011, https://ghgprotocol.org/scope-3-technical-calculation-guidance
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
35
co2  emissions (scope 1 and 2)
scope 1 and 2 are defined according to the 
greenhouse gas protocol: scope 1 includes all 
direct emissions from fuels such as coke, coal 
and natural gas as well as emissions from raw 
materials; scope 2 includes indirect emissions 
from consumption of purchased electricity, heat 
or steam1. 
co2 scope 1 emissions are calculated based 
on consumptions, net calorific values, carbon 
content or emission factors determined by 
readings, invoices, laboratory analysis results 
or national databases depending on country 
specific regulatory requirements.
all scope 1 emissions from our stone wool 
factories in the eu, united kingdom and norway 
are covered by the eu emissions trading 
scheme. all external assurances in connection 
with these compliance schemes take place 
during or after the issuing of this report. in 2019, 
no significant differences were found between 
the numbers reported and the compliance 
assurance schemes.
co2 emissions from electricity (scope 2) are 
reported as market based emissions and location 
based emissions. market based emissions are 
based on emissions factors specified in energy 
attribute certificates, contracts, power purchase 
agreements and supplier utility emissions and 
residual mix. where market based emission 
factors are not available, location based factors 
are used. market based emissions are used for 
rockwool’s co2 and ghg goals.
the location based emissions are calculated 
using the emission factors published by the 
international energy agency specific to the 
country of operations.
absolute factory ghg emissions 
(scope 1 and 2)
factory ghg emissions are the sum of co2 
emissions and other ghg emissions (n2o) in 
absolute terms for the reporting year. n2o 
emissions are calculated based on analyses 
made in some of the production facilities under 
representative operational conditions. the global 
warming potential value used for n2o is the one 
published in the ipcc fourth assessment report 
(ar4). the data is used in calculating the group’s 
progress to absolute factory ghg emissions 
science-based target.
absolute lifecycle/non-factory ghg emissions 
(scope 3)
scope 3 is defined according to the greenhouse 
gas protocol: scope 3 includes other indirect 
emissions from activities of the organisation, 
occurring from sources that they do not own, or 
control2.
lifecycle emissions are collected and calculated 
by taking into account the group’s upstream and 
downstream absolute ghg emissions within the 
reporting year.
air emissions – nox, so2, co, ammonia, 
phenol, formaldehyde and pm10
all 
air 
emissions 
other 
than 
ghgs 
are 
calculated as the total emissions for each 
component and are based on analytical 
measurements 
performed 
in 
accordance 
with the factory’s permit requirements and 
operational conditions. in addition to the permit 
requirements, rockwool has set minimum 
mandatory requirements relating to air emission 
measurements that prevail in cases where legal 
requirements are less stringent. the scope of air 
emissions is 31 stone wool factories and includes 
one factory acquired in 2018.
the air emissions data has some uncertainty and 
are dependent on nationally prescribed methods, 
sampling frequency, sampling methods and 
laboratories. emission measurements can vary 
a great deal based on the representativeness 
of the samples taken, flow measurements and 
sampling techniques, as well as the method of 
analysis. 
water consumption and withdrawal 
water withdrawal consists of water withdrawn 
from the ground, surface water, municipal supply 
and any other external source at the 30 stone 
wool factories. rainwater collection is excluded 
from the water consumption per tonne of stone 
wool. reported data is based on metre readings 
and invoices.
total water consumption from all areas with 
water stress, refers to the water consumption at 
four factories in malaysia, india and russia that 
have been identified as being located in either 
highly or extremely highly water stressed areas. 
this was the result of a water scarcity assessment 
carried out by a third party in 2017. the water 
scarcity assessment will be carried out every fifth 
year. 
landfill waste from factories
waste to landfill is calculated as the total quantity 
of production waste sent to landfill by the 30 
stone wool factories. reported data are based 
on weighbridge tickets and/or documentation 
provided by external suppliers either in the 
form of reports or invoices. waste sent to 
landfill by these sites that did not originate from 
the production process is excluded from the 
reported figure.
waste sent to other types of disposal are 
calculated as the total quantity of waste sent 
to each individual type of disposal. reported 
data are based on weighbridge tickets and 
documentation provided by external customers/
suppliers.
reclaimed waste
a reclaimed waste scheme is where rockwool 
or a third-party contractor offers a recycling/
reuse scheme for the purposes of exploiting the 
inherent recyclability of stone wool. 
a country-specific reclaimed waste scheme 
is considered eligible when it meets all of the 
following criteria:
• the scheme facilitates the take back of 
construction and/or demolition rockwool 
stone wool products to a rockwool factory 
and/or a waste/industry partner that ensures 
the waste is reused/recycled;
• the scheme is either offered to a substantial 
market segment or the scheme is offered to 
selected, large customers in a country;
• the scheme covers as a minimum insulation 
products but must also cover systems segment 
products when appropriate; and,
• the offering is accessible for example on the 
rockwool country website, in marketing 
brochures, through direct promotion, etc. and 
is communicated to relevant customers. 
the criteria are as well included in the goal’s 
internal guidelines, available to all rockwool 
employees and global business units, as part 
of the goal scope. a country must present 
appropriate documentation in the form of 
contracts, financial documentation, customer 
correspondence and marketing materials for 
assessment by rockwool management.
recycled content 
recycled content is calculated in accordance 
with en 15844:2012 and iso 14021:1999, but 
excludes internal factory waste. the group 
recycled content is calculated as an average 
of the recycled content across the 31 stone 
1 ghg protocol, scope 2 guidance, 2015, https://ghgprotocol.org/scope_2_guidance 
2 ghg protocol, scope 3 guidance, 2011, https://ghgprotocol.org/scope-3-technical-calculation-guidance
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
36
wool factories. recycling of waste from other 
industries is waste or co-products  used to 
substitute virgin stone in the  melting process.
energy consumption
energy consumption is calculated as the total 
energy consumed by the 30 stone wool factories 
in the form of fuel and electricity. reported 
energy is based on the consumptions determined 
by weight or volumes measured or invoices and 
on net calorific values from laboratory analysis, 
information from the suppliers or national data 
bases. the sources for net calorific values and 
emission factors depend on country specific 
regulatory requirements.
energy efficiency in our own buildings
energy efficiency in own, unrenovated offices is 
calculated in terms of kwh/m2/year. the criteria 
for the buildings included in the scope of the goal 
and the ones, excluded are outlined in the internal 
group guidelines to the goal. the guidelines 
are available internally to all rockwool 
employees and global business units that are 
part of the goal’s scope. to determine the scope, 
and the initial baseline energy consumption of 
the buildings determined to be in scope, a third 
party was engaged by management to carry out 
an energy efficiency mapping of the group’s 
global office building stock. this resulted in an 
initial office building scope with an estimated 
energy efficiency performance to be used as 
the goal baseline. two buildings were not part 
of the initial third party assessment, as they were 
demolished. new buildings were built instead 
and these are now added to the assessment.
when rockwool investigates the energy 
efficiency improvement potential of an office 
in scope, a new energy design performance 
assessment is completed by a third party. 
if the calculated energy efficiency from this 
assessment deviates from the initial baseline 
value, the baseline is updated to reflect the new 
value. the final energy efficiency value of the 
renovation/new build is used to calculate the 
energy efficiency improvement. this value is 
calculated by a third party.
safety data indicators
lost time incident (lti) rate
the lti rate is calculated as the total lost time 
incidents per one million working hours.
a lost time incident is defined as an incident that 
renders the injured person unable to perform 
any regular job or restricted work on any number 
of calendar days after the day on which the 
injury occurred. contractor working hours are 
calculated based on actual hours registered on 
site or hours written in tenders. working hours 
for rockwool employees are in most cases 
calculated based on payroll systems. in some 
cases, the calculation is based on other systems, 
in some cases based on headcount and normal 
work week hours. some adjustments to actual 
working hours such as overtime or absence have 
to be estimated due to availability of data.
compliance data indicators
workplace diversity
women in management includes managers 
on levels 1–5 in our organisational hierarchy. 
women in new hires includes managers on levels 
3–5 in our organisational hierarchy.
anti-corruption
the disclosure of incidents is aligned with the gri 
standard on anti-corruption point 205-3, where 
confirmed incidents of corruption are reported.
environmental laws and regulations – 
compliance
a fine is a monetary sanction for non-compliance 
with environmental and health and safety laws 
gri standard reference index
our reporting is informed by the global 
reporting initiative (gri) standards. 
the standards highlight multiple topics 
across three categories: economic, 
environmental and social, which are 
material to our business. 
we publish a separate gri standard 
reference index along with our annual 
sustainability report that can be 
downloaded at www.rockwool.com/
group/about-us/sustainability/
and regulations (including international, national, 
and voluntary agreements with authorities). 
a sanction is a non-monetary administrative 
sanction for non-compliance with environmental 
and health and safety laws and regulations 
(including international, national, and voluntary 
agreements with authorities).
fines and sanctions are reported as the 
total of fines and sanctions in the 31 stone  
wool factories.
the number of safety, health and environment 
audits/inspections includes external audits 
related to safety, health and environment carried 
out by authorities, certified bodies, or similar, 
together with group internal audits at the 31 
stone wool factories.
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
37
limited assurance report
the management of rockwool international 
a/s (“rockwool”) engaged us to provide 
limited assurance on the selected data described 
below for the period 1 january – 31 december 
2020.
our conclusion
based on the procedures we performed and 
the evidence we  obtained, nothing has come 
to our attention that causes us not to believe 
that the data in scope for our limited assurance 
engagement are free of material misstatements 
and are prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the accounting principles as 
stated on pages 35-37.
this conclusion is to be read in the context of 
what we say in the remainder of our report. 
what we are assuring
the scope of our work was limited to assurance 
on the status of rockwool’s sustainability 
goals for the period 1 january – 31 december 
2020 in the section “factbook and data” (pages 
29-33) in rockwool’s sustainability report 
2020, namely:
• co2 emissions (page 29);
• energy efficiency (page 29);
• water consumption (page 30);
• reclaimed waste (page 31);
• landfill waste (page 31) and;
• safety, health and wellbeing (page 33).
our assurance does not extend to information 
in respect of other data or periods, unless 
otherwise indicated.
professional standards applied  
and level of assurance
we performed a limited assurance engagement 
in accordance with international standard 
on assurance engagements 3000 (revised) 
‘assurance engagements other than audits and 
reviews of historical financial information’ and, 
in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, 
in accordance with international standard on 
assurance 
engagements 
3410 
‘assurance 
engagements on greenhouse gas statements”, 
issued by the international auditing and 
assurance standards board. greenhouse gas 
quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty 
because of incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emissions factors and the 
values needed to combine emissions of different 
gases. 
a limited assurance engagement is substantially 
less in scope than a reasonable assurance 
engagement in relation to both the risk assessment 
procedures, including an understanding of 
internal control, and the procedures performed 
in response to the assessed risks; consequently, 
the level of assurance obtained in a limited 
assurance engagement is substantially lower than 
the assurance that would have been obtained 
had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed.
our independence and quality control
we have complied with the code of ethics 
for professional accountants issued by the 
international 
ethics 
standards 
board 
for 
accountants, which includes independence 
and other ethical requirements founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional 
competence 
and 
due 
care, 
confidentiality 
and 
professional 
behavior. 
the firm applies international standard on 
quality control 1 and accordingly maintains 
a comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements. our work was carried 
out by an independent multidisciplinary team 
with experience in sustainability reporting and 
assurance.
understanding reporting  
and measurement met hodologies
the selected data need to be read and 
understood together with the accounting 
principles, as stated on pages 35-37 of this 
report, which management is solely responsible 
for selecting and applying. the absence of a 
significant body of established practice on which 
to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial 
information allows for different, but acceptable, 
measurement 
techniques 
and 
can 
affect 
comparability between entities and over time. 
work performed
we are required to plan and perform our 
work in order to consider the risk of material 
misstatements of the data. in doing so and based 
on our professional judgement, we:
• reviewed the suitability of the accounting 
principles;
• made inquiries and conducted interviews 
with 
rockwool’s 
 
management 
with 
responsibility for management and reporting  
of 
the 
data 
to 
assess 
reporting 
and 
consolidation processes, use of company-wide 
systems and controls performed;
• checked 
data 
on 
a 
sample 
basis 
to 
underlying documentation, and evaluated the 
appropriateness of quantification methods 
and compliance with the accounting principles;
• conducted analytical review of the data and 
trend explanations submitted by all reporting 
entities for consolidation at group level; 
• read other information included in the 
rockwool sustainability report 2020 in 
order to identify any material inconsistencies 
with the selected data in scope for our 
assurance engagement and our limited 
assurance report thereon; and 
• evaluated the obtained evidence.
rockwool’s responsibilities
management of rockwool is responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining 
internal control over information relevant to 
the preparation of the selected data that is 
free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error;
• establishing objective accounting principles 
for preparing data; 
• measuring and reporting data based on the 
accounting principles; and,
• the content of the rockwool sustainability 
report for the period 1 january – 31 december 
2020.
our responsibility
we are responsible for:
• planning and performing the engagement 
to obtain limited assurance about whether 
the selected data are free from material 
misstatement, and are prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the accounting 
principles;
• forming an independent conclusion, based on 
the procedures performed and the evidence 
obtained; and,
• reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders 
of rockwool.
copenhagen, 18 march 2021
pricewaterhousecoopers
statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab 
cvr no. 3377 1231
torben jensen
state authorised public accountant
rune kjeldsen
state authorised public accountant
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
38
esg performance
in response to growing interest, rockwool group, in 2019, became the first company in the 
nordic region to host quarterly calls with investment analysts focusing solely on our esg approach 
and performance. this is a fast-moving area of engagement, and we welcome regular dialogue with 
analysts on these issues. recordings of the esg analyst calls can be found at www.rockwool.com/
group/.
cop statement to ungc
rockwool group is a participant in the  
un global compact and we express our 
continued support for the global compact by 
hereby renewing our ongoing commitment to 
the initiative and its principles.
ratings
• msci esg a
• msci bisr environmental impact 89.42%
•  sustainanalytics risk rating 18.8 (low)
•  iss-oekom c+ (prime)
• cdp climate b
indexes
• trucost, part of s&p global, classifies 100 percent 
of the group’s products as sdg positive. 
selected partnerships within climate and sustainability
ungc action platforms:
• business ambition for climate and health
•  reporting on the sdgs
ellen macarthur 
foundation – ce100
corporate leaders group
renovate europe
rockwool sustainability report 2020
introduction
factbook and data
creating impact
39
rockwool international a/s
 
hovedgaden 584 
dk-2640 hedehusene denmark 
cvr no. 54879415
tel: +45 46 56 03 00
www.rockwool.com/group/ 
 twitter.com/rockwoolgroup
 linkedin.com/company/rockwool-group
 facebook.com/rockwoolgroup
 instagram.com/rockwool_group
released 
18 march 2021
© rockwool international a/s 2021
all rights reserved
