esponsibility is embedded in 
scandinavian tobacco group’s 
core values and shapes how we 
conduct our business.
2020 was another defining year for the group, both 
for our business and our approach to corporate social 
responsibility. we introduced a new group strategy 
to guide our business through 2025, and we adopted 
our very first csr strategy, all while navigating the 
risks from covid-19 and working to keep our people 
healthy and secure in their work.
i am very excited about our new csr strategy, which 
follows and builds on actions we took in 2019 to 
strengthen our csr engagement through new gov-
ernance and now, going forward, clearer priorities 
and actions. our new csr strategy identifies four 
focus areas to guide our activities, and this report is 
structured around them and shares our views, our 
progress, and the actions we still need to take.
the group this past year also reviewed and updated 
our corporate values to ensure they remain relevant to 
our many stakeholders and employees. here, we want 
to light the way forward, and demonstrate that scan-
dinavian tobacco group is committed to transparent 
and responible business behaviour. we want all of 
our internal and external stakeholders – commercial 
partners, employees, civil society, investors, regula-
tors and others with whom we engage – to consider 
us a responsible corporate citizen. we believe our 
commitment to responsibility benefits our business, 
our employees, and the communities where they 
work and live. 
we acknowledge that smoking comes with a health 
risk, and this remains a fundamental premise for the 
way we operate our business. we have developed 
our own position on smoking and related marketing 
principles to ensure that we not only comply with the 
law but also employ responsible marketing and sales 
practices across all the markets in which we operate. 
this year’s csr report is structured around the four 
focus areas in our new csr strategy: our engagement 
with our people and communities, our approach to 
environmental and climate impacts on our planet, 
our commitment to living our ethics, and our belief 
that strong governance is the foundation for respon-
sible business practice. this year’s report describes 
how we identified these focus areas, as well as the 
key activities associated with each.
our new csr strategy and this report, for the first 
time, also address the un sustainable development 
goals, where we have sought to map our four focus 
areas and activities to those sdgs and targets where 
we can have a meaningful impact. 
as in previous years, our report includes selected data 
regarding key aspects of our csr activities covering 
the years 2018 to 2020. we also note where we are 
making new commitments and lifting our ambition, 
like our decision to, also for the first time, begin work 
in 2021 to put in place the capabilities to measure and 
report on our greenhouse gas emissions. 
we will seek continuous improvement in our perfor-
mance across all of our four csr focus areas, and 
our csr approach has the full backing of both my 
executive team and our board of directors. we remain 
excited about our csr journey, just as we remain 
committed to sharing our growth and progress with 
you and our community of csr stakeholders.
r
introduction from ceo 
niels frederiksen
niels frederiksen
president and ceo
2
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
candinavian tobacco group is 
headquartered in copenhagen, 
denmark and has a global sales 
and production presence. in our key us 
market, the group has offices in beth-
lehem, pennsylvania and richmond, 
virginia, respectively. in 2020, the 
group had production sites in denmark, 
belgium, the netherlands, indonesia, sri 
lanka, nicaragua, honduras, the domin-
ican republic, and the united states. 
scandinavian tobacco group’s business model 
involves the manufacturing and sale of tobacco 
products. these are produced with tobacco and other 
materials from third party suppliers all over the world, 
and include cigars, pipe tobacco and fine-cut tobacco. 
our products are sold in approximately 100 markets 
across the world via the group’s own sales compa-
nies and through third party importers. in the us, 
we conduct direct sales to consumers online and via 
catalogues and, in the us as well as in a few european 
markets, we also have direct-to-consumer sales in 
brick and mortar shops.
in january 2020, the group completed the acquisition 
of agio cigars, which added additional employees to 
the group and broadened our production footprint to 
include four new factories in belgium, the nether-
lands, sri lanka, and the dominican republic.
the group, in late 2020, launched a new 5-year busi-
ness strategy, rolling towards 2025, that will guide 
us in our ambition of becoming the global leader in 
cigars.  
content and structure 
this report addresses the following content:
our new csr strategy - the group adopted its first 
csr strategy in 2020. this section describes how we 
arrived at our new strategy, including our work to 
identify our csr stakeholders and issues. 
our four strategic focus areas - this section intro-
duces the four focus areas and activities that form the 
core of our new csr strategy: 
•  people and communities – including important 
considerations like how we maintain safe and inclu-
sive workplaces.
•  planet – looking at how our business impacts our 
environmental and climate.
•  ethics – addressing  how we live our values.
•  governance – explaining our approach to the poli-
cies and practices in our business and csr work.
our csr strategy and the un sustainable devel-
opment goals (sdgs) - the report concludes with an 
overview of how our individual focus areas map to 
key sdgs where we believe we can have an impact.
tobacco and responsibility 
we acknowledge the health risks associated with 
smoking as we have described in “our view on 
smoking” below. this is a fundamental premise for 
how we conduct our business. we have for many years 
had our own marketing principles that ensure that we 
develop, market and promote our products not only in 
accordance with the law but also with these basic 
beliefs. 
our view on smoking
smoking is for adults only, and the health risk
must be taken seriously by everybody. every
smoker should balance the pleasure of
smoking against the risk involved, and then
make a personal choice whether to smoke or
not. we do not work to increase the number
of smokers or to grow the total market for
tobacco. we grow our business by growing
our market share and by encouraging
smokers to choose our products and
categories over those of competitors.
about this report
this report constitutes our statutory report on 
csr for the financial year 2020, in accordance with 
section 99a of the danish financial statements 
act ("lovpligtig redegørelse for samfundsansvar, 
jf årsregnskabslovens §99a") for the scandinavian 
tobacco group group of companies.
the section "diversity and inclusion" on page 
7 of this report constitutes our statutory report 
on the gender composition of management and 
related policies for financial year 2020, according 
to sections 99b and 107d of the danish financial 
statements act (“lovpligtig redegørelse for den 
kønsmæssige sammensætning af ledelsen, jf. 
årsregnskabslovens §99b" and ”redegørelse for 
politik for mangfoldighed, jf. årsregnskabslovens 
§107d"), and forms part of management’s report 
in the group’s annual report for 2020.
statutory reporting 
requirements
s
3
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
our new csr strategy 
responsibility is embedded in scandinavian tobacco 
group's core values and how we do business, and the 
group has for many years been active with csr efforts 
in the communities where we make and sell our 
products.
in 2019, our executive board decided to strengthen 
the group's focus on csr through a new governance 
structure and launched a process to create the 
group's first csr strategy, which was approved in 
june, 2020.
our csr work is governed by a csr steering 
committee, a sub-committee of our executive board. 
the csr steering committee is chaired by our chief 
financial officer, and includes our chief supply chain 
officer, our chief human resources officer, our 
general counsel and svp for legal, regulatory and 
public affairs, and our head of investor relations. the 
steering committee determines the overall frame-
work and resource allocation for our csr activities, 
with reference to the executive board. our head of 
csr is responsible to the csr steering committee for 
coordinating activities such as csr strategy develop-
ment and targets, follow through in different csr 
focus areas and activities, and producing the annual 
csr report.
in developing our new csr strategy, we worked with 
an external consultant to guide us through the process 
of identifying our material csr stakeholders and 
issues. we undertook a series of stakeholder 
interviews in late 2019 and early 2020 with key 
employees across multiple levels and locations within 
the group, and held additional discussions with 
external business partners. this process was reviewed 
and validated by the csr steering committee, who 
also ranked our key stakeholders and their impor-
tance to our csr work. 
our key stakeholders inlcude:
•  our employees
•  our leadership
•  shareholders/investors/financial partners
•  potential employees
•  regulators
the key stakeholder interviews were further used to 
identify our material csr issues, which our csr 
steering committee also reviewed, validated, and 
ranked, noting importance both to the group and to 
our key stakeholders.
our key material issues include:
•  workplace health and safety
•  environmental and climate impacts
•  anti-child labour policies
•  ethical business behavior
•  good governance
•   employee engagement, equal opportunity and 
diversity
clusters of similar material issues were grouped 
thematically by the csr steering committee to 
identify and select our four focus areas, each with 
associated ambitions and priority activities.
finally, the csr steering committee worked to map 
our four focus areas and activities to relevant un 
sustainable develop goals where scandinavian 
tobacco group can have a material impact. an 
overview of this mapping is provided on page 12.
our csr strategy covers a three-year time horizon, 
from 2020 to 2022.
4
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
ur four focus areas form the 
core of our new csr strategy and 
are meant to give direction and 
coherence to our csr work. we have 
identified priority areas for activity in 
each of our four focus areas.
current activities in our people & communities focus 
area include promoting employee health and safety, 
advancing diversity and inclusion, maintaining strong 
employee engagement, and working with the commu-
nities where we make and sell our products.
in our planet focus area, our key activities include 
managing our resource use, waste, and associated 
impacts on the environment. we will also, moving 
forward, seek to better understand and mitigate 
our climate impacts by measuring, reporting, and 
addressing our greenhouse gas emissions.
within the ethics focus area, we seek to support 
human rights, including engagement to address child 
labour in our tobacco supply chain, and ensure our 
employees maintain high ethical standards.
and, in our governance focus area, we wish to 
maintain responsible marketing principles and work 
to continuously uphold our zero tolerance principles 
again corruption.
key policies, actions, and results related to each of 
these four focus areas follow.
o
our 4 strategic csr focus areas
governance  
how we embed strong oversight and 
transparency in our business
people and communities
how we engage with our employees and the 
communities where they work and live 
ethics 
how we promote responsible 
actions in our business and industry
planet 
how we work to ensure sustainable 
production
5
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
people and 
communities
our policies
our employees are the foundation for our success and 
their well-being is critical to us. we want all of our 
employees to enjoy safe and healthy working 
conditions, and we actively work to reduce the risk of 
accidents and work-related illnesses. we also believe 
that our employees should be treated with respect, 
trust and dignity. no form of discrimination is 
tolerated, and we embrace everyone irrespective of 
gender, nationality, age, religion, race, ethnicity, 
political opinion, union membership, sexual 
orientation, disability, health status or any other 
characteristic. we value the dialogue and collaboration 
with our employees and aim to apply good labour 
practices in all our operations.
we respect that our employees have freedom of 
association, the right to be represented by a union 
and the right to bargain collectively. terms of 
employment and working conditions, as a minimum, 
must always comply with local law, including any law 
on minimum wage.
actions and results
health and safety
employee safety is a top priority for the group and a 
central component of our group environment, health, 
and safety (ehs) programme. as part of our general 
ehs audit cycle, safety audits identify work processes 
and equipment which might pose a risk to our 
employees, where we seek to identify root causes and 
conduct structured analysis and problem-solving 
consistent with group lean production policies and 
procedures. in addition to our regular audits, multiple 
initiatives are taken across all facilities to ensure 
continuous improvement in health and safety.
our regular audit cycle was disrupted in 2020 due to 
the critical importance of responding to the covid-19 
pandemic, which required coordinated and sustained 
action across group production and non-production 
sites to keep our employees safe and their jobs secure. 
travel and other restrictions related to covid-19 
complicated this task.
the completed acquisition of agio cigars in january, 
2020, added additional sites to the group's production 
footprint, which are reflected in this year's health and 
safety data. this should be taken into account when 
comparing health and safety trends with previous 
key safety data - production facilities
area / indicator
2018
2019
2020
safety
pre-agio acquisition (11 sites)
 post-acquisition (15 sites)
total lost time accidents
67
53
34
92
group average accident rate
1.01
.91
.61
1.14
6
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
years. we have, for 2020, provided data for both the 
pre- and post-acqusition  footprint. the operational 
integration of the former agio cigars sites is ongoing, 
and will lead to additional rationalisation of our global 
production footprint going forward.
the above considerations noted, in 2020, the number 
of work-related accidents (lost time accidents, or 
injuries leading to more than one working day’s 
absence) in our pre-acquisition facilities was 34, down 
from 53 in 2019. the number of lost time accidents for 
the combined, post-acquisition group production 
footprint was 92. the accident rate (number of 
accidents per 200,000 hours worked) was 0.61 in 2020 
for pre-acquisition facilities, and 1.14 post-acquisition. 
while integrating the agio cigars sites, group ehs 
safety procedures were implemented in all new sites, 
already leading to significant safety improvements in 
q4  in line with pre-acquisition results.
we continued in 2020 to offer regular health checks to 
employees in several of our production facilities and 
offices. this is of particular value in communities where 
health services might not be readily available.
our production facilities are often an important focal 
point for the well-being of their local communities, as 
they offer employment to many people. our production 
facilities in indonesia, sri lanka, honduras, nicaragua 
and the dominican republic all supported local 
communities through initiatives that included 
sponsoring equipment to local hospitals, schools and 
other community institutions, as well as providing 
charitable contributions to people in need. we also 
continued to facilitate scholarships for the education of 
employees’ children in nicaragua, honduras and the 
dominican republic. 
employee engagement
we believe in empowering employees to develop their 
full potential. engagement among our employees 
remains high and compares well to external 
benchmarks. as part of our transformational 
programme, fuelling the growth, we have regularly 
carried out multiple surveys, or "pulse surveys", 
measuring employee enagatement. these were 
continued in 2020, with three separate cycles of our 
pulse surveys sent to different employee groups. we 
have also, as a result of these surveys, identified areas 
where management can act to increase engagement, 
and our human resources team actively addresses 
these issues. in 2021, we plan to issue a global 
engagement survey, with external benchmarking, to 
assess our progress.
diversity and inclusion
this section of the report constitutes our statutory 
report on the gender composition of the management 
for the financial year 2020, according to sections 99b 
and 107d of the danish financial statements act 
(“lovpligtig redegørelse for den kønsmæssige 
sammensætning af ledelsen, jf. årsregnskabslovens 
§99b" and ”redegørelse for politik for mangfoldighed, 
jf. årsregnskabslovens §107d"). the report forms part 
of management’s report in the group’s annual report 
for 2020.
at least once a year, and consistent with its policies 
and procedures, the board of directors discusses the 
composition of the board of directors as well as the 
executive board. both the board of directors and exec-
utive board have and value an international profile. at 
present, four out of the seven shareholder-elected 
members of the board of directors are of a nationality 
other than danish and a total of five nationalities are 
represented. members of the board of directors hold a 
wide range of commercial, fmcg, financial, manage-
ment and tobacco industry experience and qualifica-
tions. at the end of 2020, our eight executive board 
members represented five nationalities.
the board of directors had set the goal that, by 2020, 
at least 25% of the shareholder-elected members of 
the board of directors should be women. the goal was 
reached in 2019 when two out of seven, or 28%, of the 
members were female, and this was also the case at 
the end of 2020. according to the danish financial 
statement act §99b, this distribution is considered an 
equal distribution. the board of directors has 
therefore set a new goal that, by 2024, 30% of the 
shareholder-elected board members should be 
women.
women in senior management
at the end of 2020, 50%, or four out of eight, of our 
executive board were women. we wish to have better 
representation of women at the senior management 
level (defined as the top 3 layers of management in 
the group), as women here are currently the 
under-represented gender.
we aim to identify all talents with leadership potential 
in the group, irrespective of gender, and want to 
identify and develop women by providing opportuni-
ties to take on more responsibility or advance in their 
existing leadership roles. our ambition was that, in 
2020, one-third of senior managers were women. we
have not yet reached that goal. in 2020, 25% of the top 
three levels of the organisation were women.
our group’s performance tracking process covers
approximately 1,800 employees across functions and
geographies, evaluating each individual's perfor-
mance and potential. this process helps ensure that a 
gender diverse talent base is identified each year.
as a multinational company with a global produc-
tion and sales presence, the group has felt the 
impact of covid-19 and we have worked to keep 
our peple safe and their livelihoods secure. 
navigating the challenges posed by covid-19, 
which included direct impacts on sales operations 
and production sites due to national lockdowns, 
curfews, and travel and other restrictions, was 
managed by an internal group task force that in-
cluded multiple business areas, and approached 
its work with employee safety as its primary 
mission.
we have introduced extensive hygiene measures, 
social distancing, and other precautions and in 
many areas also coordinated closely with local au-
thorities to ensure our employees operate safely 
in the communities where they work and live. 
covid-19
area / indicator
2018
2019
2020
gender balance (% women)
board of directors
17%
28%
28%
senior management
20%
20%
25%
diversity and inclusion
7
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
planet
our policies
scandinavian tobacco group acknowledges the 
importance of limiting our environmental and climate 
impact. we seek to reduce the use of resources like 
water and energy in our production facilities, as well 
as effectively manage our waste.
actions and results
as noted above in relation to health and safety issues, 
the group manages our environmental footprint and 
impact through our environment, health and safety 
(ehs) programme, which in 2020 expanded from 11 to 
15 production sites globally due to the agio cigars 
acquisition. these facilities range from very large, 
modern plants to others where there is little 
automation. production clearly poses the largest 
category of real and potential environmental and 
climate risks associated with our business. overuse of 
energy or water, as examples of potential risks, are 
costly both to our business and to the communities  
(ref planet or envirornment instead) where we 
produce, so we seek to monitor and use these resourc-
es responsibly.
with intervals of two to four years, depending on the 
latest score achieved, every production facility in the 
ehs programme undergoes a comprehensive on-site 
review which, with respect to the environment, 
focuses on energy and water consumption, and waste. 
the ehs programme serves to ensure the application 
of best practices across our group. we focus on energy 
savings and aim to limit, reuse and recycle waste 
where possible. 
8
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
as previously noted, our regular ehs production site 
audits were disrupted in 2020 due to the critical 
importance of responding to the covid-19 pandemic. 
our forward ambition remains that all facilities 
covered by the ehs programme achieve an overall 
score of at least 80% in their review. for 2020, even 
with disruptions due to covid-19, local reviews 
continued to focus on additional opportunities for 
continuous improvement in environmental manage-
ment through group lean production processes.
as noted above, the completed acquisition of agio 
cigars in 2020 should be taken into account when 
comparing environmental data and trends with 
previous years. we have, for this year, noted separate 
trends for both the pre- and post-acquisition 
production footprint. we have continued to introduce 
group best practices following the acquisition of agio 
cigars across all factories in order to further improve 
and embed our environmental, health and safety 
(ehs) processes throughout the group.
the group continued in 2020 with incremental 
installation of energy-saving equipment in selected 
production facilities. while these and other measures
this past year helped contribute to an overall
decrease in energy consumption in pre-acquisition 
sites, there was an overal increase in group combined 
post-acquisition consumption in 2020 when compared 
to 2019.
similarly, water consumption in pre-acquisition sites 
in 2020 was roughly at par with 2019, but overall 
post-acquisition group consumption increased in 
2020 compared to 2019. 
one way to potentially compare trends from before 
and after the agio cigars acquisition is to compare 
energy and water use per total number of work hours 
used in both pre- and post-acquistion production 
settings. when viewed through this lense, both energy 
and water use trends in 2020 were stable compared 
with 2019. water use measured in this way was 0.016 
cubic meters per working hour in 2020, which was 
also the case for 2019. energy use calculated in this 
way was 0.018 gigajoules per working hour for 2020, 
also the same as in 2019.
the amount of tobacco waste generated in pre-acqui-
sition sites slightly decreased in 2020 compared to 
2019, while overall post-acqusitiion group tobacco 
waste increased in 2020 compared with 2019.
we will in 2021 continue to work to improve and 
reduce our environmental impacts and reduce the 
amount of waste we produce. beginning in 2021, we 
also intend to begin measuring our greenhouse gas 
(ghg) emissions consistent with the greenhouse gas 
protocol (see right).
area / indicator
2018
2019
2020
resource use
pre-agio acquisition (11 sites)
post-acquisition (15 sites)
total energy use (gigajoules)
213,871
216, 662
211,155
284,271
water (m3)
181,469
183,504
183,120
254,986
waste
tobacco waste (tons)
2,602
2,260
2,253
3,329
selected ehs data
measuring and reporting 
our greenhouse gas  
emissions
scandinavian tobacco group recognises the 
importance of managing and mitigating our 
climate and environmental footprint.
for that reason, the group will, beginning in 2021, 
measure our scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse 
gas (ghg) emissions as defined under the 
greenhouse gas protocol.
we will use 2021 to put in place the appropriate 
internal procedures to measure and validate our 
ghg protocol scope 1 and 2 emissions, with the 
intention of reporting on our ghg scope 1 and 2 
emissions in next year's (2021) csr report.
once we have validated and begun reporting our 
data, we will then proceed to consider appropro-
priate potential greenhouse gas reduction 
targets.
9
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
ethics
our policies
we respect internationally recognised human rights 
as described in the international bill of human rights, 
the ilo declaration on fundamental principles and 
rights at work, the un guiding principles on business 
and human rights and conventions describing the 
rights of children (please see our code of conduct on 
our website for the full list).
scandinavian tobacco group neither accepts nor 
uses child labour in any part of our supply chain. we 
respect children’s rights, including their right to devel-
opment and education, rest, and play. no child should 
be subject to forced labour or to child labour, includ-
ing work for which the child is too young (below the 
applicable minimum age), or work which is mentally, 
physically, socially or morally dangerous to children, 
or that interferes with their schooling. our aim is to 
avoid causing or contributing to negative impacts 
on human rights, including children’s rights, and to 
address and mitigate such impacts if they occur.
actions and results
unfortunately, tobacco growing, like other types of 
agricultural work, involves a risk of child labour and 
below-standard working conditions. it is a challenge 
to address these issue effectively on the ground in to-
bacco-growing communities, where child labour may 
exist for complex reasons, which are typically rooted 
in poverty. 
we currently conduct relatively simple reviews of 
selected tobacco suppliers, and only at irregular 
intervals. we aim to develop and implement a more 
uniform, systematic and risk-based approach to due 
diligence, particularly in relation to child labour but 
also other labour matters. we intend to work incre-
mentally toward improvement of our due diligence 
processes in the tobacco supply chain and gradually 
develop the capabilities to assess and influence 
the working and social conditions where we source 
tobacco. we wish to apply a risk-based approach and 
concentrate our efforts where we are better posi-
tioned to make a difference. in 2020, we took initial 
steps to enable a risk-based selection of suppliers and 
we expect in 2021 to develop and implement the new 
due diligence process.
scandinavian tobacco group in 2020 continued our 
membership and engagement with the eliminating 
child labour in tobacco growing foundation (eclt), a 
multi-stakeholder initiative that runs long-term proj-
ects in tobacco-growing communities in several coun-
tries. the eclt advocates globally for strong anti-child 
labour policies, shares best practices, and works with 
rural communities and families to withdraw children 
from child labour and ensure they are educated, safe 
from exploitation, and ecouraged to reach their full 
potential. the eclt also seeks to address poverty as a 
root cause of child labour. 
the group acknowledges the health risks associated 
with smoking as we have described in "our view on 
smoking" (page 3), and that smoking is only for adults. 
we have for many years had our own marketing princi-
ples that ensure we develop, market and promote our 
products not only in accordance with the law but also 
with these basic beliefs. we ensure compliance with 
our marketing principles through a close dialogue be-
tween the marketing and legal functions of the group.
human rights 
10
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
governance
our policies
we believe that good governance is central to 
responsible business practice. the group’s code of 
conduct, adopted by the board of directors, sets the 
overall standard for how we act as a company and the 
behaviour we expect from our employees to ensure 
responsibility and high ethical standards across the 
business. the code of conduct is supplemented by a 
number of more detailed policies and guidelines in 
various areas, including anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery, data protection, etc. 
 
scandinavian tobacco group has a zero-tolerance 
approach to corruption and all forms of bribery, 
including facilitation payments. corruption and 
bribery are contrary to the transparent and honest 
behaviour that our company wishes to stand for, and 
beyond being illegal, corrupt behaviour implies a 
significant reputational risk for the company and not 
least undermines fundamental functions in societies 
and their economy. 
actions and results
scandinavian tobacco group complies with the dan-
ish recommendations on corporate governance (for 
detail, please see our statutory corporate governance 
report 2020, available at www.st-group.com). as 
described in our statutory report on corporate gover-
nance, only one of the shareholder-elected members 
of our board of directors is classified as non-inde-
pendent. the composition of our board of directors 
and committees is also provided on our website, 
as is board member attendance at meetings of the 
board of directors and committees, respectively. for a 
detailed description of the remuneration of the board 
of directors and management, our 2020 remuneration 
report is also available online. 
we implemented  in 2020 a new and more structured 
approach to how we manage and review our group-
wide policies by establishing an overview of all such 
policies, defining who is accountable and responsible 
for each policy, its annual review and, when relevant, 
updating the policy.
we also in 2020 incrementally introduced employees 
that joined the group following the acquisition of 
agio cigars to our policies. this task, which includes 
both awareness activities and training, will continue 
in 2021. 
the group conducted anti-corruption and anti-bribery 
training of all employees in 2020, and new employees 
are also required to take this training. in 2021, we plan 
to develop further tools and guidelines to support 
employee attention and compliance in this area. we 
also in 2020, as part of our compliance efforts in rela-
tion to data protection, trained all employees in data 
protection and safe it behaviour.
in 2021, we will conduct the annual review of our 
code of conduct and our supporting policies and 
consider the need for potential updates. further, we 
will consider additional online training programs 
within ethics and compliance, and address language 
barriers that may impede the full adoption of any of 
our policies.
the group’s whistleblower portal was updated in 
2020 and access for employees who wish to report is 
now easier technically than before, and the underly-
ing management of whistleblower reports has also 
been improved with the new portal. the whistleblow-
er portal can be accessed by employees who wish to 
report behaviour that is suspected of being illegal, 
dishonest or in breach of our policies. anyone who 
reports an incident can choose to remain anonymous. 
we expressly protect anyone who reports against 
retaliation. in 2021, we plan to promote the whis-
tleblower platform and encourage all employees to 
speak up where relevant. 
11
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
e want our csr work to have a 
meaningful and recognizable 
impact in our business and 
in the world around us. that is why 
we have sought to map our new csr 
strategy to the un sustainable devel-
opment goals (sdgs).
 
how we link our work to the sdgs
the group adopted our first csr strategy in june, 
2020. the new csr strategy has 4 focus areas, 
each with its own defined ambitions, activities, 
and goals. those focus areas are:
• people & communities
• planet 
• ethics
• governance
we assess that these focus areas and related ac-
tivities impact 5 of the united nations sustainable 
development goals: 
people and communities
how we engage with our employees
and the communities where they 
work and live
we do not tolerate any kind of 
discrimination
climate action
the group will in 2021 begin measuring our 
scope 1 and 2 emissions under the green-
house gas protocol.
diversity and inclusion
25% of our senior managers in 2020 were 
women. this falls short of our goal of 33%, 
and we want to do better. 
code of conduct
our code of conduct  describes the ethical 
behaviour we expect from every one of our 
employees.
we seek to reduce energy use and waste 
through prevention, reduction, recycling, 
and reuse
we will seek to measure, report, and 
ultimately reduce our greenhouse gas 
emissions
planet 
how we work to ensure 
sustainable production
we work to protect labour rights and 
ensure safe and secure working 
environments
we are committed to eliminating child 
labour in all forms in our  
value chain
we are working to adopt sustainable 
business practices
we do not tolerate any form of corruption 
or bribery
we committed to non-discrimination 
under human rights laws and conventions
ethics 
how we promote responsible 
actions in our business and industry
governance 
how we embed strong oversight 
and transparency in our business
the un sustainable development goals
w
12
csr report 2020
scandinavian tobacco group a/s 
scandinavian tobacco group a/s
sandtoften 9
2820 gentofte 
denmark
www.st-group.com
cvr 31 08 01 85
