sydbank group
csr report
corporate social responsibility report
2
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
we take our responsibility seriously at sydbank – and that’s why 
we will take action now and we will do it properly. this is how 
last year’s report started and in many respects these promises 
provided the framework for the year’s sustainability agenda at 
sydbank.
when i say we will do it properly it means that sydbank’s am-
bition is to focus on sustainability as an embedded part of our 
business. our sustainability efforts will continue to focus on the 
challenges in society that are closest to our core business. this 
is where we have the greatest responsibility and where we can 
make the biggest difference.
in order to live up to our promise we stepped up our ambitions 
and actions in 2020. this should hopefully be clear when you 
have read the csr report but i would still like to highlight the 
initiatives i am particularly proud of having achieved in 2020.
the un global compact and
the un principles for responsible banking
if we are to ensure a sustainable future for the next generations 
we must pull together nationally as well as internationally. that 
is why sydbank signed the un global compact and the un prin-
ciples for responsible banking in 2020 – 2 major endorsements 
that strengthen our sustainability efforts and social responsibility 
efforts and help us to embed sustainability into the bank’s core 
business.
green milestones
last summer our new solar cell system was put into operation 
and since 1 november we have purchased power generated by 
danish wind turbines to offset the carbon emissions we are una-
ble to reduce at this point in time. in addition new green products 
have been added to our product offering to help our retail clients 
make sustainable decisions, we have added electric cars to our 
fleet, and employees, customers and business partners can now 
charge their electric cars at one of our 10 new charging points 
at the bank’s head office. these are all large and small initiatives 
to minimise sydbank’s carbon footprint and make a difference to 
our climate.
forerunner in equality
in 2020 sydbank took part in a survey of women’s opportunities 
to move into management positions in the financial sector that 
was conducted on behalf of the employers’ association for the 
financial sector and the financial services union in denmark. 
here sydbank stood out in a positive way compared to the rest 
of the sector – in fact we came out on top in terms of employees’ 
perception of equality in management positions. the fact that 
men and women at sydbank feel that their opportunities for 
promotion are equal is an outstanding result in itself. however   
regardless of this impressive result we have not reached the 
finish line yet. 29.3% of management positions were held by 
women in 2020. this is why we have set a target that women 
will account for 35% of all managers at the bank in 2025. we 
have also introduced a quota regarding sydbank’s management 
talent programme so that from 2020 there must be an equal 
gender balance among participants.
in this report you can read much more about our sustainability 
efforts and how we take our social responsibility seriously.
preface
raising the bar
by karen frøsig, ceo of sydbank
karen frøsig
ceo
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
3
about this report
this report covers sydbank’s sustainability efforts during the 
period 1 january – 31 december 2020 and meets the current 
requirements regarding csr reporting pursuant to section 135b 
of the danish executive order on financial reporting of credit 
institutions and brokerage firms etc. this applies in particular with 
regard to the 5 mandatory reporting areas: social issues, climate 
issues, environmental issues, human rights and anti-corruption 
measures. 
the report also meets the requirements of the un global com-
pact concerning the submission of a communication on progress 
(cop). sydbank’s cop must describe and provide documentation 
of sydbank’s efforts to support and uphold the 10 un global 
compact principles and possibly also the 17 sdgs.
explanation of terms
this report uses many terms all of which are related to the um-
brella term “sustainability”.
sustainability encompasses several elements: social, economic 
and environmental sustainability.
a common definition of sustainability is found in the brundtland 
report (our common future) from 1987. the report describes 
sustainable development as “development that meets the needs 
of the present without compromising the ability of future genera-
tions to meet their own needs”.
therefore when sustainability is used in this report it is a broad 
term covering several aspects to ensure a balance in our basis of 
existence without endangering the basis of existence of future 
generations.
4
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
contents
chapter 1: creating value 
6
role in society 
8
our stakeholders 
8
business model – “banking – pure and simple” 
8 
business strategy 2019-2021 
8
satisfied customers 
8
local sponsorships and fund donations 
8
chapter 2: a decent bank 
12
consumer protection and product approval procedures 
14
taxation 
14
data processing and information security 
14
efforts to fight crime and corruption 
15
chapter 3: sustainability efforts 
16
high ambitions 
18
4 strategic focus areas 
18
sustainable governance foundation 
18
sustainable endorsements and levers 
18
chapter 4: responsible finance 
 
 
20
overall objective 
22
risk – responsibility and balance 
22
sustainable transition represented in lending 
22
green home package – contribution to the green transition    
for retail clients 
23
challenges in a coronavirus-hit economy 
23
financing to innovative corporate clients through innovfin 
23
chapter 5: responsible investment 
24
overall objective 
26
ambition to increase esg integration 
26
climate targets for investments 2021–2030 
27
sustainability and responsibility  
– not 2 sides of the same coin 
27
sustainability in retrospect 
27
responsible investment in shares and corporate bonds 
27
investments in government bonds 
28
collaboration and knowledge sharing 
28
chapter 6: responsible employer 
30
overall objective 
32
excellent and committed employees                                           
are our most valuable asset 
32
combating discrimination 
33
sexism has no place in sydbank 
35
safety and security for our employees 
35
good health requires commitment and action 
35
chapter 7: responsible climate footprint 
36
overall objective 
38
credible co² accounts –                                                             
ambitions to include additional data 
 
 
 38
transport by car – a major item in the co² accounts 
39
monitoring of energy consumption 
39
focus on energy optimisation 
39
focus on renewable energy sources 
41
responsible suppliers and business partners 
41
new waste separation solutions 
41
chapter 8: data and data processing 
42
data collection 
44
overview of data 
44
definitions 
48
auditors’ report 
52
the csr report for 2020 is available in danish at sydbank.dk  
and in english at sydbank.com.
in case of doubt the danish version applies.
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
5
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
6
1
creating value
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
7
1. creating value
role in society 
sydbank is one of denmark’s largest banks and given its sifi 
label our role in society involves a special responsibility to make 
a positive contribution to developments. the financial sector’s in-
frastructure helps to ensure that payments and money transfers 
can be carried out efficiently and securely. at the same time the 
advice we provide contributes to improving big and small financial 
decisions by companies and private persons. by providing finance 
to companies and private persons we help companies to grow 
and contribute to economic activity in terms of the housing mar-
ket and other consumer spending.
our stakeholders
sydbank’s growth and existence depend on dialogue and 
interaction with our stakeholders in our own organisation, in the 
marketplace and in society at large. 
our organisation
in our own organisation the most important stakeholders are 
our employees. the dialogue with employees is formalised in a 
number of employee forums focusing on working conditions and 
the work environment.
marketplace
in the marketplace the bank’s principal stakeholders are its cus-
tomers, shareholders, suppliers and business partners. 
high priority is placed on being close to our customers and nur-
turing the relationship by offering advice and responsible prod-
ucts and by local engagement. sydbank’s customers are divided 
into 3 segments: corporate, retail and private banking.
society at large
sydbank’s key stakeholders in society at large are supervisory 
authorities, policymakers, interest organisations as well as the 
media and press. 
common regulation of the banking sector is necessary to  
ensure security, transparency and stability. 
to help ensure that regulations can be handled effectively in 
practice, sydbank is a member of the following interest organ-
isations that are in dialogue with supervisory authorities and 
legislators on behalf of the entire financial sector or parts of the 
financial sector: finance denmark, national banks in denmark 
and the employers’ association for the financial sector.
business model – “banking – pure and simple”
the classic business model for banks is fundamentally concerned 
with optimising risk management when short-term deposits are 
converted to long-term loans. this remains the cornerstone of 
sydbank’s business model. 
sydbank focuses on what is important – banking and sound 
business. we call it “banking – pure and simple”. 
in addition to deposit and loan products produced in-house, the 
bank’s business model includes activities within payment servic-
es, securities trading and asset management as well as arranging 
mortgage credit products, investment management products 
and insurance products via business partners. backed by the best 
business partners our competitive strength is increased. 
sydbank is a nationwide bank and its business volume is evenly 
distributed across 12 danish regions as well as northern germa-
ny, where the bank has 3 branches.
the bank’s business model is available at sydbank.com.
business strategy 2019-2021
sydbank’s business strategy for 2019-2021 is called “a stronger 
bank”. we will build a stronger bank with the purpose of en-
hancing sydbank’s market position. our customers must receive 
greater value, our employees must have even simpler processes 
and sydbank must be more visible to the bank’s key stakeholders 
by means of a stronger profile. 
our stakeholders
marketplace
our organisation
society
suppliers and
business partners
customers
private banking
interest organisations 
media & press
retail
trade organisations
policymakers
corporate
employees
supervisory authorities 
shareholders
8
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
focusing on decency and responsibility the bank’s business 
model is based on its customers, its fundamental values and the 
digital structure that is a part of the bank’s engine room.
satisfied customers
our customers must trust that we provide value-adding advice. 
we do not take this trust for granted but strive to earn it. 
customer satisfaction within the corporate and retail segments 
is measured every year. customer satisfaction is measured to 
help us identify how we can become an even better bank for our 
customers. the surveys are conducted in collaboration with epsi 
and aalund and they enable us to compare our results with the 
rest of the financial sector.
in 2020 sydbank kept its excellent second place among the 5 
largest banks in terms of overall customer satisfaction in the 
corporate and retail segments – despite the fact that customer 
satisfaction in the financial sector has generally fallen compared 
to 2019.
sydbank’s second place in the retail segment was driven in 
particular by sydbank’s high score on image, which concerns the 
bank’s reputation and customer focus. sydbank outperformed 
the financial sector in all parameters. 
according to the aalund survey we can call ourselves denmark’s 
third largest corporate bank – and we are also the preferred bank 
when corporate clients look for a new bank.
local sponsorships and fund donations
at sydbank we set great store by being close to customers. this 
is why having a strong presence in local communities is a central 
element in terms of our activities regarding sponsorships and 
fund donations.
2
1
3
4
5
6
achieved in 2020
achieved in 2020
corporate
customer satisfaction
2
1
3
4
5
6
retail
in order to protect our local roots the local branches manage a 
significant share of sydbank’s sponsorships. sydbank seeks to 
contribute to open and active local communities throughout the 
country and therefore one of the aims of the sponsorships is to 
establish and maintain social relationships. 
in 2020 our sponsorships were affected by the coronavirus pan-
demic, which is why we implemented alternative initiatives such 
as a printed advertising campaign to support regional and local 
media in times of difficulty and cinema drive-in events to gather 
local communities in an alternative way. in addition we extended 
our partnership agreement with the danish football association/
divisionsforeningen regarding the sydbank cup until 2024.
the funds donated dkk 10,623,626 in 2020. our sponsorships 
totalled dkk 11,403,717, of which local sponsorships accounted 
for dkk 8,797,978.
spreading cup magic
the sydbank cup is not just for elite players.
it is a nationwide tournament and is played by all 
divisions and leagues. this means that more than 800 
teams take part. sydbank wants to give all local teams 
the feeling of being the stars of the tournament and 
we review on an ongoing basis how the cup magic 
can be brought closer to local clubs. 
we have previously collaborated with veo regarding 
recording and broadcasting all cup matches to bring 
the small clubs into the limelight.
in 2020 sydbank was the initiator of the series “the 
forgotten cup heroes” with tales from the sydbank 
cup and highlighting the small clubs. our planned 
initiatives for 2020 were impacted by the coronavirus 
pandemic. consequently we attempted to carry out 
alternative activities such as a television broadcast of 
the sydbank cup quiz on ascension day (the planned 
cup final day) where members from the 4 semi final 
teams were tested on their knowledge of football and 
in other challenges.
in 2021 we will launch the sydbank cup – lorry. 
the lorry runs on hvo biodiesel and has a variety 
of experiences and activities to help create a festive 
atmosphere in connection with local tournament 
matches.
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
9
10
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
799
profit for the year
bank loans and advances:
deposits:
number of staff (fte):
funds under management:
market share – retail:
market share – corporate:
corporation tax:
profit for the year:
roe:
customer satisfaction
(among the 5 largest banks)
dkk 60.2bn
dkk 95.9bn
2,021
dkk 109bn
6%
12%
dkk 222m
dkk 799m
6.6%
number 2 (retail and corporate)
dkkm
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
11
12
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
2
a decent bank
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
13
2. a decent bank
trust in the financial sector is essential for growth in society. the 
overall level of satisfaction with the banking sector is declining 
and sydbank must differentiate itself from the many negative 
bank cases by continuing to run a decent bank.
consumer protection and product approval procedures
sydbank strives to ensure that its customers make their decisions 
on an informed basis and are afforded the protection they are 
entitled to as consumers. these elements are incorporated in the 
bank’s procedures and guidelines. 
sydbank is subject to mifid ii’s product governance rules. this 
means that all the bank’s investment products must have a 
target market whose needs, characteristics and investment 
objectives are compatible with the product. the bank’s ongoing 
internal controls aim to ensure that the product matches the 
target market and continues to meet customers’ requirements.
the bank has control mechanisms to make sure that rules and 
guidelines are observed. compliance ensures that the controls 
are performed and that any errors and omissions reported are 
corrected.
taxation 
sydbank’s tax policy determines the framework for sydbank’s 
conduct in the area of taxation in relation to its own tax affairs as 
well as those of its customers and business partners. sydbank’s 
board of directors is responsible for the tax policy, which is availa-
ble at sydbank.com.
we take our responsibility as regards tax reporting and pay-
ments seriously as tax payments represent the foundation of our 
welfare society and this area is of great significance to the bank’s 
stakeholders and its business. it is important for sydbank that it 
can explain and defend its tax-related transactions in terms of its 
stakeholders. this is why for instance sydbank has no activities 
in countries included on the eu’s list or the oecd’s list of tax 
havens. 
sydbank collaborates and has an ongoing dialogue with the dan-
ish tax agency via for instance tax governance to ensure that 
the bank’s work related to taxation is carried out in an orderly 
manner. 
data processing and information security
data protection – confidentiality comes with strings
ongoing efforts are made to ensure that we comply with appli-
cable legislation on data security. our customers must be able to 
trust that their data is processed in a confidential, secure and safe 
manner.
sydbank has a dedicated gdpr department tasked with helping 
the bank’s data protection officer (dpo) to oversee and analyse 
the bank’s processing activities so as to continuously improve 
and optimise data processing and thereby eliminate errors.
furthermore all sydbank’s employees receive mandatory training 
in the correct processing of personal data. twice a year human 
resources submits a report to the bank’s head of compliance 
and the bank’s dpo on the number of employees who have 
completed the training. human resources has a follow-up 
procedure for employees who have not completed the training. 
together with the employee’s immediate superior the reason for 
not completing the training is found. if it proves difficult to find the 
cause and it is not due to for instance leave of absence or illness 
the matter is reported to compliance and the dpo.
information on how the bank’s personal data policy is put into 
practice as regards customers is available at sydbank’s website: 
sydbank.dk/privat/kontakt/persondata (in danish only).
data ethics policy
sydbank’s data ethics policy must ensure that we comply with 
legislation in force, monitor developments and are perceived as a 
respected, competent and decent business partner. as yet finan-
cial undertakings are not required by law to have a policy on data 
ethics but for sydbank it is essential that our customers and the 
surrounding world have every confidence in our ability to process 
and store their data. this is why we have set out our position on 
data ethics in a policy. 
sydbank’s data ethics policy concerns the bank’s work related to 
data ethics, including ethical deliberations in connection with the 
use of new technologies and increased volumes of data.
we are responsible for ensuring that data processing is carried 
out in an ethical, responsible and transparent manner. as a result 
we strive to improve our data processing on an ongoing basis and 
influence developments in the data area and we also collaborate 
with relevant authorities in this area. 
information security
cyber attacks are a threat to our business and the stability of so-
ciety. a growing trend exists where hacker groups attack banks’ 
systems to gain access to banks’ transaction patterns and other 
insider knowledge. 
sydbank’s approach to information security is an approach ensur-
ing that we comply with legislation and implement recommended 
measures. furthermore operational security is strengthened on 
an ongoing basis where focus is on making it difficult for hostile 
persons to access our systems and preventing them from doing so.
14
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
it is important that all employees contribute to maintaining a 
high level of security. consequently all employees completed a 
course in information security in 2020. the training course was 
based on the most common methods criminals use to attempt to 
gain access to information through employees. the course also 
included information on how employees should respond in case 
of a security breach. 
it is important that we are able to perform critical tasks at all 
times – also during a contingency situation where security has 
been breached. this is why sydbank has an operational contin-
gency plan in place including guidelines for recovery of lost data 
and accessibility.
sydbank’s information security department is responsible for 
implementing commercial impact assessments of the bank’s it 
systems that test the security of the bank’s systems. in ad-
dition sydbank takes part in the danish central bank’s threat 
intelligence based ethical red teaming (tiber-dk), which is a 
programme to test the critical parts of the financial infrastructure. 
tiber-dk aims to increase the cyber resilience of the financial 
sector and promote financial stability. participation in the pro-
gramme includes a red team attack that will reveal the infrastruc-
ture’s strengths and weaknesses.
unfortunately it fraudsters exploit every opportunity to trick 
money out of customers. in 2020 they took advantage of the 
extraordinary coronavirus situation where many customers were 
waiting for parcels to be delivered or their extra holiday money to 
be paid out. the fraudsters attempted to trick holiday money out 
of customers, attempted to get customers to pay a fake delivery 
fee and phoned customers posing as sydbank advisors and ask-
ing them to transfer their money to a “protected” account.  
as a result considerable focus is on protecting customers from 
fraudsters. in various media and on our own digital channels and 
platforms such as sydbank.dk, information on fraud is provided 
on an ongoing basis and advice is offered on how to avoid fraud.
efforts to fight crime and corruption
combating money laundering and terrorist financing 
at sydbank we are mindful of the risk of the bank being used 
for money laundering and terrorist financing and as a result 
efforts are made on a continuing basis to strengthen preventive 
measures.
our efforts are based on the principle that we must be able to 
stand up to scrutiny – especially when our customers enquire 
about the bank’s measures to combat money laundering but also 
when business partners and authorities seek information about 
our contingency plans. consequently we set up a dedicated page 
on sydbank’s website in 2020 with information on our efforts  
to combat money laundering. 
in 2020 we also strengthened the bank’s controls regarding 
obtaining necessary information in connection with the estab-
lishment of new customer relationships. this means that the 
establishment of new retail and corporate client relationships 
is monitored centrally in order to comply with the danish anti- 
money laundering act. furthermore the bank’s transaction 
monitoring is extended on an ongoing basis whenever new risks 
are identified. 
sydbank has an aml committee that is tasked with helping 
to identify and assess risks and ensure that the bank is kept 
updated on the newest trends and the newest measures. the 
committee consists of relevant group executive vice presidents 
and is chaired by sydbank’s aml executive (group executive 
management member).
the aml risk management department reports to the group 
executive management and the board of directors on a quarterly 
basis on efforts made to combat money laundering and also 
reports on a regular basis on the risk scenario within this area.  
sydbank was a member of finance denmark’s anti-money 
laundering taskforce (dissolved in 2019), which submitted 25 
recommendations in 2019 to strengthen efforts to combat mon-
ey laundering and terrorist financing. in 2020 we focused on the 
most important of the 25 recommendations and they have been 
incorporated, directly or indirectly, into day-to-day operations at 
sydbank. the bank has also been a member of several working 
groups set up by finance denmark and taken an active part in ef-
forts to establish a collaboration among danish banks to combat 
money laundering and terrorist financing.
finance denmark’s anti-money laundering taskforce recom-
mended that banks comply with 6 principles of conduct to ensure 
a healthy corporate culture with regard to preventing money 
laundering and terrorist financing and thereby help to boost 
efforts in this area. sydbank complies with the 6 principles. 
bribery
sydbank disapproves of any form of corruption and bribery and 
does not tolerate its existence.
sydbank takes an active part in preventing market abuse. vast 
amounts are traded on securities markets and it is important that 
markets are protected against abuse. sydbank has measures in 
place to ensure the correct handling of inside information within 
the bank, by management and employees as well as measures 
relating to customers’ use of the bank.
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
15
16
s y d b a n k  /  s a m f u n d s a n s v a r  2 0 1 9
3
sustainability efforts 
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
17
3. sustainability efforts
high ambitions
as one of denmark’s largest banks, sydbank has a special 
responsibility to make a positive contribution to developments in 
society so that together we can ensure a sustainable future for 
the next generations – we take this responsibility seriously. this is 
one of the reasons why in 2020 we stepped up our ambitions as 
regards sustainability by becoming a signatory to new significant 
international principles and guidelines and implementing organi-
sational changes. 
4 strategic focus areas 
for sydbank sustainability is about doing something because it 
is the right thing to do and because it can be integrated naturally 
in the bank’s business. in other words we must focus on the 
challenges in society that are closest to our core business and 
primary areas of impact. 
as a result we have decided to focus on 4 areas where we believe 
we can make a significant difference: responsible finance, respon-
sible investment, responsible employer and responsible climate 
footprint. consequently these areas play a prominent part in this 
report and are discussed and reviewed separately in chapters 
4-7. each chapter sets out what we have achieved in 2020, our 
goals for 2021, special risks and focus areas, relevant policies and 
standards as well as our overall objective in each strategic area. 
human rights and workers’ rights are a component of several of 
the focus areas and therefore actual and potential impacts on 
these rights are integrated in the following chapters. 
sustainable governance foundation 
sustainability is embedded in many parts of sydbank. conse-
quently sustainability and social responsibility also form part   
of sydbank’s governance foundation, which includes: 
• sydbank’s code of conduct 
• sydbank’s management code of conduct  
• csr policy  
• conflicts of interest policy
• policy for prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing 
and sanctions breaches  
• responsible investment and active ownership policy 
• sydbank’s tax policy  
• remuneration policy  
• policy for the underrepresented gender 
• policy for healthy corporate culture  
• data ethics policy.  
sydbank’s code of conduct was updated in 2020 and now it also 
makes demands on the sustainability and social responsibility of 
suppliers and business partners. 
organisation and management 
csr forum 
sydbank’s csr forum evaluates and decides upon concrete csr 
and sustainable initiatives. the members of the forum include 
sydbank’s ceo and relevant group executive vice presidents. 
the forum is formalised by means of terms of reference setting 
out its tasks and powers. for instance sydbank’s csr forum 
made 2 strategic and significant decisions in 2020 regarding 
the bank becoming a signatory to the un global compact and 
the un principles for responsible banking. these endorsements 
will be elaborated on below. furthermore the forum decided to 
purchase green electricity to carbon offset the part of sydbank’s 
consumption that does not come from renewable energy  
sources. 
sydbank’s csr forum also operates on a more tactical level 
by evaluating on an ongoing basis the trends in society that 
sydbank should incorporate to best contribute to a sustainable 
development. in addition the forum reviews relevant proposals 
sent by employees via a special email address to improve the 
bank’s sustainability efforts. 
organisational change
in line with sydbank’s elevated ambitions we implemented an or-
ganisational change in 2020 aimed at bringing our sustainability 
efforts closer to the group executive management and strategic 
decisions so that sustainability may be further embedded in the 
business. 
sydbank’s csr forum continues to have the overall responsibility 
for defining the bank’s strategic direction for sustainability and 
social responsibility. however communications & marketing no 
longer serves as the secretariat for the csr forum. this respon-
sibility has been transferred to secretariat, digitization & strategy. 
sydbank’s mandatory reporting on corporate social responsibility 
is also managed by secretariat, digitization & strategy. 
sustainable endorsements and levers 
in order to strengthen sydbank’s sustainability and csr efforts 
the bank complies with a number of international and national 
initiatives, principles and guidelines. a few of these are described 
below. 
un sdgs 
sydbank greatly respects the un’s efforts to establish a global 
partnership to work for a sustainable future. we work continu-
ously to develop and implement measures that help to support 
the sdgs. sydbank’s sustainability efforts are related to 7 sdgs 
where our activities can make a difference and we consider on 
18
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
a regular basis whether our activities can make a difference in 
relation to additional sdgs. 
un global compact 
sydbank joined the un global compact in 2020 and as a result 
we have become a part of a movement where more than 10,000 
companies from 166 countries work for a better world. the un 
global compact is a voluntary initiative where we as a company 
undertake to adhere to 10 principles. the principles focus on a 
company’s social responsibility and are based on international 
conventions and agreements. our participation also requires us 
to report on how we comply with the principles and work for a 
better world. as a signatory sydbank has the possibility to boost 
its csr and sustainability efforts while at the same time send a 
clear message to the surrounding world that we take sustainabili-
ty and social responsibility seriously. 
un principles for responsible banking  
sydbank signed the un principles for responsible banking at 
the end of 2020. this step will have considerable implications 
for sydbank as the incorporation of the principles will define new 
strategic and targeted efforts to embed sustainability into the 
bank’s core business to a still greater extent. 
in addition to the new endorsements in 2020 sydbank continues 
to follow and support the un principles for responsible invest-
ment, the paris agreement, the oecd guidelines for multination-
al enterprises and ilo conventions on dignity of workers. 
sdg 5 – gender equality
sydbank contributes to gender equality by 
continuously measuring gender diversity and 
by making sure that target figures as regards 
the underrepresented gender are set. for in-
stance in 2020 the board of directors adopted 
a new target for the underrepresented gender 
on sydbank’s board of directors and the target 
has increased from 25% to 30%. 
sdg 7 – affordable and clean energy
sydbank contributes to the scaling up of 
sustainable energy by using sustainable energy 
and by investing in sustainable wind energy. for 
instance in 2020 we installed a solar cell system 
at the head office.
sdg 8 – decent work and economic 
growth
sydbank contributes to growth in society by 
guaranteeing a financial infrastructure and by 
making financing available. in addition in our 
code of conduct we demand that our suppliers 
and business partners do not contribute to 
forced labour.
sdg 9 – industry, innovation  
and infrastructure
sydbank contributes through finance to our 
innovative corporate clients via the eu-backed 
growth programme innovfin.
sdg 11 – sustainable cities and
communities
sydbank contributes via our locally embedded 
sponsorships, our investment and our finance. 
sdg 13 – climate action
sydbank contributes to the climate initiatives 
by complying with national and international 
climate control efforts. through our products, 
competences and business partners we can ad-
vise our customers about sustainable initiatives, 
for instance energy-saving renovations. 
sdg 16 – peace, justice and strong
institutions
sydbank contributes by supporting and follow-
ing institutions that work for peace and justice. 
we have a tax governance collaboration with 
the danish tax agency, we have risk manage-
ment to combat money laundering and terrorist 
financing and we eliminate countries from our 
investment universe of government bonds if 
for instance they are subject to international 
sanctions or are unable to sufficiently support 
security and welfare for their citizens.
in 2020 karen frøsig, ceo, signed the un principles for responsible banking 
on behalf of the bank. 
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
19
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
20
4
responsible finance
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
21
4. responsible finance
achieved in 2020 
• we have continued to ensure a strong financial foundation by 
maintaining our cautious approach to credit risk.  
• green home package consisting of the energy cost calculator 
energiberegneren, professional energy advice from betterhome 
and sydbank energilån (energy loans).  
• the possibility of financing for corporate clients via eu funds 
has been maintained.  
• esg issues have been incorporated in sydbank’s credit policy.
goals for 2021  
• to continue to have a sensible and cautious approach as re-
gards lending and a high credit quality.   
• to continue our work on integrating esg risks in risk manage-
ment and capital planning. 
• to initiate relevant and structured data collection for esg credit 
risk management.  
• to make sure that the creditworthiness assessment of the 
bank’s customers continues to ensure that they can afford to 
take out a requested loan and are not placed in an unacceptable 
financial situation due to money owed to sydbank.
special risks and focus areas 
• our approach as regards lending means that focus is on being 
in a strong financial position and ensuring that we do not put 
customers in an unacceptable financial situation. 
• sydbank must advise customers in difficult financial situations 
and be a responsible financial partner.
• sydbank is a sifi (systemically important financial institution), 
which means that the bank is subject to special legislation.
• in the assessment of the danish central bank, banks are well 
equipped to manage risks associated with the green transition 
but a drastic transition during which large impairment charges 
are recorded over a short time frame may result in a capital 
shortfall. 
relevant policies and standards 
• sydbank’s credit policy.
overall objective
through decency and systematic procedures we will ensure that 
sydbank is an efficient, well-run and solid bank with a responsible 
approach to financing and lending to the bank’s customers. 
risk – responsibility and balance  
sydbank’s credit policy must ensure responsible lending so 
we will remain a solid bank also going forward where risks are 
reasonably balanced as regards the bank, customers as well as 
society.
creditworthiness is decisive when granting loans to private 
persons. our assessment of a customer’s creditworthiness is not 
just about assessing whether the bank can get its money back. 
the bank’s decision to approve a loan application or not is based 
on a customer’s financial circumstances. so when we grant a loan 
we assess that the customer will not be put in an unacceptable 
situation due to money owed to sydbank.  
we are not looking for quick-fix solutions but sound, clear 
agreements with a realistic level of risk. sydbank achieves these 
objectives by striving to be among the absolute top performers 
in denmark in terms of operating a bank and providing adviso-
ry services to customers based on their specific situation. the 
current interest rate environment challenges the bank’s business 
model but sydbank does not compromise on its risk profile or 
business standards. 
sustainable transition represented in lending
there are no quick and easy solutions if sustainability is to be em-
bedded in our banking business and have an impact in the long 
term. this is why we will ensure that sustainability is integrated 
properly. it will be integrated for instance in our lending, which 
together with capital management is a large strategic focus area. 
we are working on integrating esg risks in the bank’s risk 
management and capital planning and our objective is that over 
time we will be able to report the co2 footprint of our loans. we 
took the first steps in 2020 and we will continue to build on this 
in 2021. 
however reporting the carbon footprint of our loans and includ-
ing esg risks in the basis for decision-making are not without 
problems as the calculations and analyses require a greater 
volume of data. in terms of loans to retail clients, knowledge of 
customers’ esg issues requires that sydbank knows about ener-
gy labelling of properties and cars. in terms of loans to corporate 
clients, knowledge of esg issues requires that clients possess a 
certain volume of data. not all clients have the relevant data and 
therefore access to data poses a significant challenge. 
with regard to the carbon footprint of our loans we are work-
ing on a recently launched co2 model from finance denmark 
that has been developed for the financial sector to measure the 
carbon footprint of loans and investments. however the model 
22
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
is an example of the data challenge as it is based for instance on 
sector-specific average data since company-specific emission 
data is not available. 
updating of sydbank’s credit policy 
sydbank’s credit policy was updated in 2020 and the policy now 
emphasises that sydbank should have a cautious approach to 
customers whose assets, business models or future earnings are 
particularly exposed to esg risks. consequently we must collect 
relevant data on esg issues to be included when making deci-
sions. the collection of data is an activity under development. 
sydbank has decided that some esg issues are so serious that  
it will not grant credit to companies that: 
• do not have measures in place to ensure safe handling of  
hazardous waste  
• do not have the necessary licences for activities requiring  
environmental permits 
• do not observe human rights in accordance with the  
universal declaration of human rights
• use child labour in violation of the un convention on the  
rights of the child.  
green home package – contribution to
the green transition for retail clients 
we have a shared responsibility to create a more sustainable 
future and this is why we introduced several measures in 2020 
aimed at our retail clients in order to contribute to the green 
transition. 
totalkredit’s energiberegner, an energy cost calculator, which is 
available on sydbank’s website, provides information on energy 
improvements and motivates customers to make their homes 
more energy efficient. the energy cost calculator offers custom-
20 recommendations for sustainable finance 
in 2019 finance denmark’s “forum for sustainable 
finance” introduced 20 recommendations on how 
the financial sector can contribute to a sustainable 
transition of society. the recommendations include 
a recommendation for finance denmark’s members 
to use a common method to calculate their carbon 
footprint of the activities they help to finance or invest 
in. as sydbank is a member of finance denmark, it is 
our ambition to comply with the 20 recommendations 
from the forum for sustainable finance. 
ers a fast and easy way to find out if they can save money by 
making an energy improvement, which will also make a difference 
for the climate. the calculator proposes improvements, shows 
annual savings, how much the improvement will cost as well as 
the co2 saving. 
we would like to help customers finish their energy improve-
ment projects. therefore we are eager to make customers aware 
of the possibility of receiving professional energy advice from 
betterhome, which will help customers make the most of their 
energy investments. betterhome is 100% financed by danfoss, 
grundfos and rockwoll, which means that energy advice is 
free of charge for sydbank’s customers. 
in 2020 we introduced sydbank energilån, ie loans to make it 
attractive for retail clients to make their homes energy efficient 
in order to save money and reduce co2 emissions. sydbank 
energilån has been made attractive by significantly reducing the 
establishment charge compared to ordinary home loans. 
challenges in a coronavirus-hit economy
at sydbank we help our customers in good times and bad. we 
believe in long-term customer relationships based on value 
creation and trust. we are doing everything in our power to 
help customers through a difficult coronavirus pandemic and we 
evaluate on a specific basis whether we can lend an extra hand. 
furthermore corporate clients are offered covid-19 financing 
solutions from export credit agency ekf and government invest-
ment fund vækstfonden. 
financing to innovative corporate clients through innovfin 
in 2020 sydbank continued to offer financing to innovative cor-
porate clients through the eu-backed growth programme innov-
fin, which is managed by the european investment fund (eif).
the collaboration with the eif makes it possible for the bank to 
offer corporate clients loans carrying a lower interest rate and the 
eif provides a guarantee for 50% of the loan. in spring 2020 the 
innovfin programme was extended in response to the coronavi-
rus crisis, which meant that sydbank was able to finance innova-
tive investments by the bank’s corporate clients with a guarantee 
of up to 80% from the eif. 
financing through innovfin can be loans to growth and innova-
tion companies or loans for specific projects involving more inno-
vative processes. corporate clients comprised by this programme 
must continue to adhere to sydbank’s credit evaluation.
during 2020 sydbank used all the bank’s funds in the innovfin 
programme, which ended at year-end 2020. we expect that the 
eif will initiate a new scheme in 2021 where focus will shift from 
innovation to green and digital initiatives. 
c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
23
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
24
5
responsible investment
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
25
5. responsible investment
achieved in 2020 
• 1,183 companies have been monitored on an ongoing basis 
with regard to violations of international norms. in connection 
with non-sustainable conduct we have visited or held meetings 
with companies 71 times.  
• we have worked on strengthening our analysis of esg risks and 
our ambitions are far-reaching. more esg data substantiating 
our decisions is included today. in the future our analysis will to 
a greater extent include companies’ co² emissions.  
• we have integrated independent quantitative and qualitative 
esg data in our decision-making and investment processes. 
the data provides us with new possibilities to tackle risks in 
companies that are due to eg weak processes by management 
to address esg matters. 
• we have widened our range of products with an ethical and 
esg responsible profile in all relevant asset classes within  
several customer groups. 
goals for 2021
• to offer customers investment products with the nordic swan 
ecolabel and in 2021 to launch as a minimum one global equity 
product with the nordic swan ecolabel. 
• to focus on the contribution of equity investments to reach 
the goals regarding carbon emissions of the 2015 un climate 
change conference (the paris agreement). in this connection 
a new policy for responsible investment and active ownership 
will be formulated. looking ahead it is our ambition that the 
companies we invest in can and will contribute to the necessary 
climate transition. 
• by means of increased reporting to state more clearly how 
sustainability is embedded in our investment process. at the 
same time we wish to communicate openly about our results 
and the many unavoidable dilemmas associated with respon-
sible investment.
special risks and focus areas
• at present very few companies publish the data we need 
to comply with forthcoming eu legislation on reporting on 
sustainable financial activities. consequently we are currently 
dependent on external business partners and esg data is based 
on a mixture of companies’ own data and subjective estimates 
by business partners’ analysts. 
• there is a risk that companies may purport to be more environ-
mentally sustainable than they actually are – so-called green-
washing. on the other hand there is a risk that green companies 
may appear to be “non-sustainable” if we have insufficient data 
to provide documentation of the sustainability requirements 
under the eu taxonomy. 
• it is a very difficult balancing act between the ambition of align-
ing our products with the overall climate goals already today 
and making adaptations over a longer period of time. if too 
much focus is on investing in environmentally sound companies 
we may miss out on the attractive investment opportunities 
of the green transition. however there is a risk associated with 
investing in the green transition as there is no guarantee that 
companies will live up to their green ambitions and reduce their 
emissions sufficiently in accordance with the paris agreement. 
so the path to reaching the climate goals is heavily dependent 
on actual developments in global co2 emissions. 
relevant policies and standards
• responsible investment and active ownership policy 
• sydbank’s conflicts of interest policy 
• international norms and conventions 
• un pri.
overall objective
sydbank will make investments in a responsible and sustainable 
manner. our decisions will be made on a solid and updated basis 
where we analyse esg issues in terms of financial and business 
risks. we will be active owners in a constructive dialogue with the 
companies we invest in. 
in 2021 sydbank will continue to focus on sustainability. new 
legislation in the form of an eu taxonomy for sustainable activ-
ities will give us the first common standards for sustainability in 
financial products. we will contribute constructively with new 
climate targets and increased information on esg issues with   
our customers. 
ambition to increase esg integration 
in 2010 the bank signed the un principles for responsible invest-
ment and as a result we are obligated to incorporate esg factors 
into our investment analysis and decision-making process. 
in 2020 targeted efforts were made to increase focus on the in-
tegration of esg factors in our investment processes as we hope 
that this will enable us to a greater extent to actively select an 
investment – not just opt out. in 2020 sydbank’s portfolio man-
agers received considerably greater access to independent esg 
data and company analyses from our business partner sustaina-
lytics. this data and these analyses will help sydbank’s portfolio 
managers to include esg factors in their concrete analyses and 
decisions to an even greater extent. 
26
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
climate targets for investments 2021–2030  
it is sydbank’s wish that over time investments are made in com-
pliance with the goals of the paris agreement. the overall goal of 
the agreement is to limit global warming. 
at sydbank we will actively address the paris agreement by 
setting concrete goals. we will begin by setting specific targets 
for share portfolios. other types of investments will be added as 
soon as data and methods improve.
we wish to offer our customers an actual choice between 2 
overall product strategies, both of which invest in a responsible 
manner. the common long-term target is a 75% carbon reduc-
tion from 2021 to 2030 compared to global equity index msci 
all country world index. the 2 product strategies vary in the 
method used to reach the target. 
one group of products will allow a gradual average co2 reduction 
and the products will invest in companies transitioning from fossil 
fuels to renewable energy sources. in this context our sustaina-
bility efforts will involve reaping returns through expected future 
climate gains of companies’ green transition activities. 
another group of products will implement an immediate adapta-
tion to the co2 target via a reduction of around 50% in 2021 and 
a further 25% over the next 10 years until 2030. the reduction 
will initially be achieved by opting out of sectors involved in fossil 
fuels. in the longer term reductions will be achieved by means of 
a targeted selection of companies reporting low co2 emissions. 
sustainability and responsibility
– not 2 sides of the same coin  
acting responsibly in the way one does business does not neces-
sarily mean that business is carried out in a sustainable manner 
– or vice versa. a company that focuses exclusively on generating 
electricity from wind turbines may act irresponsibly if for instance 
the wind turbines are erected on land where a sensitive biodiver-
sity exists. 
in other words important dilemmas are in play in terms of sus-
tainability. these dilemmas become key when we wish to offer 
sustainable investment products to a wide range of customers, all 
of whom have different requirements. 
we must find ways to reduce co2 emissions but frequently co2 
emissions are also linked to activities on which we rely heavily. 
we know that most companies will need to make substantial 
investments to adapt to a sustainable and responsible business 
model in the future. this is particularly true of industries such as 
steel, cement and energy supplies. by investing in these compa-
nies we can help to support the necessary financing of the green 
transition in some of the most climate challenged industries. 
dilemmas are unavoidable in our work with sustainable invest-
ment products. our customers will have different views and 
tolerance levels as to how little or how much they are willing to 
invest in activities involving fossil fuels. we are conscious of this 
at sydbank. 
forthcoming common eu standards in the form of a taxonomy 
for sustainability will help us to address this type of dilemma. 
the eu’s solution to solve dilemmas is to take into consideration 
whether companies’ sustainable activities risk having a negative 
impact on the environment in some other manner. the eu tax-
onomy provides us with a common method to link sustainability 
and responsibility. 
sustainability in retrospect
a sound investment decision implies that an optimal basis for 
decision-making exists. this requires current data on the actual 
circumstances combined with an informed assessment of realistic 
future circumstances.
in its analysis of sustainability sydbank uses a number of quanti-
tative and qualitative tools that to a certain extent are based on 
information from external data providers rather than direct infor-
mation from the companies themselves. at the time of analysis 
sydbank’s esg efforts – investments
deeper esg analysis
• quantitative esg data
• qualitative esg analyses
• assessment of esg risks – com-
panies and countries
• assessment of esg potential 
(eg possibility of green transition)
• analysis of the un’s sdgs.
esg integration
• inclusion of esg factors in port- 
folio composition
• impact investing (eg green 
transition)
• reporting of specific esg issues 
to customers.
responsibilty and ethics
• controls and norms
• active ownership
• engagement with companies
• sanctions – countries
• exclusion and opt-outs (eg 
alcohol, tobacco, armaments and 
firearms and fossil fuels).
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
27
the data from companies’ financial statements can be more than 1 
year old and far from all financial statements include data required 
by the new eu regulation on sustainable activities. this is why 
sydbank collaborates with sustainalytics among others to “plug 
the gaps” to create a better basis for our analysis and reporting. 
however the underlying data presents a considerable challenge 
at present. the majority of large companies provide co2 data 
on an annual basis but often it will be at least 1 or 2 years old. in 
addition the data is only historical data and does not say anything 
about where a company is right now or where it expects to be in 
5 years. 
we would like to offer our customers a variety of options re-
garding investment opportunities and data is critically evaluat-
ed. common to our investment products will always be a solid 
integration of esg issues in the investment process – because 
sustainability is more than co2.  
responsible investment in shares and corporate bonds
the foundation for all sydbank’s investments is active ownership. 
being an active owner means for instance ensuring that continu-
ous monitoring is carried out regarding violations of norms in our 
portfolio companies.
we can also perform screening for involvement in various 
products and activities that are unacceptable in some investment 
strategies, eg tobacco, alcohol and the extraction or production of 
fossil fuels.
one crucial element in active ownership is constructive dialogue 
or engagement with a company’s management. when we pur-
chase shares we can express our position by voting at a compa-
ny’s general meetings. when we buy corporate bonds we decide 
whether we wish to support the financing of the company or not 
but we have no voting rights. in both cases dialogue is consid-
ered the central element in order to achieve the desired changes. 
companies are only excluded in advance if special circumstances 
exist, for instance if a company manufactures nuclear weapons or 
cluster bombs. 
screening for violations of norms in companies
sydbank collaborates with sustainalytics with regard to monitor-
ing, verifying and addressing violations of norms. 
the first step in the screening process consists of identifying 
companies where possible or identified violations of norms exist. 
we would prefer that all companies complied with internation-
ally recognised norms and conventions but unfortunately it is 
not uncommon for cases to arise. assessing violations of norms 
requires very detailed knowledge of the case itself as well as 
a company’s processes for tackling esg issues. each case is 
categorised according to severity where the scale goes from less 
controversial to very severe. the scale determines the strategy 
for future action with regard to the company. if the violations of 
norms are very severe or significant sustainalytics will engage in 
dialogue with the company. this process is usually carried out in 
collaboration with other major investors so that there is consider-
able weight behind our constructive criticism and call for change. 
there may be several cases in the same company where the 
need for follow-up varies. in 2020 we were involved in 80 cases 
and held meetings with companies 71 times. at the end of 2020 
there were 45 pending cases. 
given knowledge of violations of norms sydbank and sustain-
alytics plan the engagement process and a possible exclusion. 
a total of 75 companies were excluded from investment in all 
portfolios in 2020 – most of them because they manufacture 
unethical or controversial weapons. 
investments in government bonds  
screening and analysis of investments in government bonds  
sydbank conducts screenings on a global level but focuses in par-
ticular on countries that issue government bonds and especially 
developing countries – the so-called emerging market countries. 
sydbank’s process – engagement with companies
screening for violations of 
norms
what do we examine?
• suspected violations of the un  
global compact
• confirmed violations of norms and 
conventions
• severity of each individual 
situation
• who to engage in dialogue?
• where can we make a difference?
engagement with companies
who do we engage in dialogue?
• we talk to all companies with 
confirmed or serious violations of 
norms.
follow-up
what happens next?
• we assess a company’s willing-
ness to engage in dialogue and 
its willingness to change
• we accept that things can take 
time so that progress can be 
made
• we will ultimately exclude 
companies that are unwilling to 
engage with us or change their 
conduct.
28
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
esg process – government bonds
esg process:
• thorough screening as to sanc-
tions – if they are relevant for the 
investment objective a country is 
excluded
• calculation of a country’s esg 
score where each country is 
evaluated relative to an average 
of relevant emerging market 
countries
• requirements as to the esg level 
and assessment of the develop-
ment trend
countries must complete all 
processes to be in the investment 
universe.
our analysis includes:
• social factors
• political factors
• the level of freedom and cor-
ruption
• environmental issues
• a country’s efforts as regards the 
un’s sdgs.
countries are divided into  
3 categories:
• green: countries we would like to 
invest in
• yellow: countries we would like to 
invest in but are especially aware 
of esg issues
• red: excluded countries.
since 2012 sydbank has used a special esg screening that 
identifies conditions in currently 198 countries. the screening 
includes an analysis of the importance of international sanctions 
with regard to government bonds as well as political, social and 
environmental factors and ends with an overall assessment. in 
this regard we review countries’ esg levels and the current trend 
in their esg scores. our goal is to eliminate countries with weak 
developments and a poor potential. in practice this means that 
some emerging market countries are eliminated. the reason for 
this could be that the countries are subject to international sanc-
tions but it could also be due to a very weak or sharply declining 
level of development where the countries’ governments are not 
fully able to support the security and welfare of their citizens.
sydbank has developed a product in the category emerging mar-
ket government bonds focusing especially on the integration of 
esg. in addition to criteria for countries’ efforts to reach the un’s 
sdgs, the product also excludes direct investments in fossil fuels 
via state owned companies. we seek to include as many esg 
factors as possible in our selection of assets, including investment 
in green government bonds.  
government bonds with dilemmas 
we do not have the same opportunities to directly influence the 
leaders of countries as we would have in a direct dialogue with 
the management of a company. changes at a country level are 
slow feeding through and the political climate in a country can 
change rapidly.
the possibilities for developing countries to promote responsible 
esg conduct vary considerably. as a result our analysis must to a 
certain extent be adapted to their reality. 
   
for the most part the countries have signed the universal decla-
ration of human rights but human rights violations are still a risk 
to a greater or lesser extent. violations could also occur in bonds 
in portfolios setting especially high requirements as to a country’s 
esg level and development. 
our esg analysis is comprehensive and many individual factors 
influence the overall picture. therefore a single factor such as 
political lack of freedom or the infringement of a minority’s rights 
can be accepted because the country performs positively as 
regards other factors. 
collaboration and knowledge sharing 
sydbank is a member of dansif − a network forum for profes-
sional investors, consultancy firms and others who engage in 
responsible investment. sydbank is also a member of the task 
group for responsible investment within the trade association 
investering danmark.
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
29
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
30
6
responsible employer
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
31
6. responsible employer
achieved in 2020
• continued high level of employee engagement – now higher 
than in 2019.  
• adjustment of the target figure for the underrepresented gen-
der on the board of directors – the target has been increased 
from 25% to 30%.
• quota regarding the management talent programme “talent 
for ledelse”. from 2020 there must be an equal gender balance 
among participants.
  
goals for 2021  
• to maintain the high level of employee engagement.  
• to continue to ensure equality, including equal opportunities  
for management positions. 
• to continue to ensure diversity.  
special risks and focus areas  
• the coronavirus pandemic has created new focus areas. we 
must focus particular attention on distance management, 
satisfaction surveys regarding furloughs and social initiatives to 
keep job satisfaction levels high. 
• discrimination, bullying and harassment are not tolerated at 
sydbank. our staff manual and a booklet on our intranet state 
that discrimination, bullying and harassment are not tolerated 
and the booklet specifies how we can prevent unacceptable 
behaviour and tackle such behaviour should it occur. the possi-
bility remains that unacceptable behaviour can occur – we must 
be aware of how we tackle this behaviour. 
• we have a stress management procedure in place to best help 
the person affected return to work. unfortunately in some cases 
this proves unsuccessful.
relevant policies and standards 
• training policy 
• health policy 
• policy for healthy corporate culture
• sydbank’s policy for the underrepresented gender 
• staff manual.
overall objective
we will provide a healthy and attractive work environment for 
our employees that allows for professional skills development 
and further training. 
excellent and committed employees 
are our most valuable asset
we want to be a bank with excellent and committed employees. 
employee engagement is strong at sydbank and we want it to 
stay that way. therefore it is important for us to know which 
factors affect employees’ job satisfaction as this will help us learn 
what should be changed so that employees feel passionate about 
their jobs at sydbank.
employee engagement survey – excellent result for 2020 
an employee engagement survey is carried out every other year. 
the bank’s employee engagement survey is conducted by en-
nova, which enables us to compare ourselves with other danish 
banks and companies in the financial sector.
the comparison in the diagram on the left is based on the latest 
engagement survey from september 2020, the average of the 2 
smaller surveys in 2019 and the engagement survey from 2018.
76
78
80
82
84
86
job satisfaction
satisfaction with sydbank as workplace
employee engagement
2019
2020
2019
2020
2019
2020
2018
2018
2018
assessment on a scale from 1 to 100
job motivation
32
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
the engagement survey shows an excellent result in 2020 with a 
very high response rate of 95. job satisfaction and loyalty among 
sydbank’s employees have risen in general. employees would 
recommend sydbank as a workplace and employees feel there is 
a strong local management. the job profile is the primary driving 
force for employees’ engagement and therefore we must make 
sure that employees continue to feel that their jobs are interest-
ing and challenging. 
even though the results of the survey are impressive our ambi-
tion is always to do better. in our customer facing functions there 
is a wish for greater authority to make necessary decisions in 
their work. we hope that the more decentralised organisation 
can help to shift responsibility to the regions – responsibility that 
will ultimately spread to customer facing functions. 
education – for the benefit of customers and employees 
education and training have high priority at sydbank – as a result 
of stricter statutory requirements, customers’ expectations and 
employees’ wish for professional development. 
most of the compulsory training courses are digital via the plat-
form videnbarometer. the system is a platform that facilitates 
the courses and stores related data so that we comply with the 
statutory documentation requirement regarding education and 
training.
continuous skills development 
development reviews are important in order to ensure employ-
ees’ professional, personal and social skills. 
theme
background and purpose
employee group
course
completion rate
compliance
the training is prepared on the basis of 
the bank’s strategy where decency, 
including proper conduct, is one of the 
main themes. the purpose is to intro-
duce all employees to selected topics 
forming part of the cornerstones that 
help to guarantee decency at the bank.
all relevant 
employees
30-minute online course
99.5
prevention of money 
laundering and terrorist 
financing
the purpose is to strengthen efforts to 
prevent the bank from being used for 
money laundering by criminals. 
all relevant 
employees
4-hour online course
98.70
processing of personal  
data
the eu gdpr provides the framework 
for a training course on the processing 
of customers’ personal data.  
all relevant 
employees
1-2-hour online course
98.70
information security
requirements regarding swift csp 
and appendix 5 of the danish executive 
order on management. the training is 
to ensure that employees have a gener-
al understanding of themes within 
information security and to strengthen 
the bank’s cyber resilience.
all relevant 
employees
30-minute online course
99.10
investment advice in 
yellow and green prod-
ucts as well as mifid
the training forms the basis of advice 
about investments in yellow and green 
investment products. 
all relevant 
employees
6-8-hour online course
100.00
property advice (mort- 
gage credit directive)
tests providing documentation that 
an employee has the necessary qualifi-
cations to offer responsible advice on 
buying and selling property. 
account managers 
managers
heads of credit 
selected central 
functions
completion of  
1-hour tests
100.00
important education and training – 2020
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
33
a personal development review (pdr) meeting between an 
employee and his/her immediate superior is held annually and 
forms the basis for the employee’s plans regarding education 
and development. the meeting looks back on the past year and 
forms the basis for development in the year ahead. the aim of 
the review is to help employees perform their work in a compe-
tent and committed manner. 
combating discrimination 
sydbank acknowledges the principles of the un global compact, 
including to respect and observe international human rights and 
to combat discrimination in all its forms.
consequently, when recruiting new employees, we ensure there 
is always an open and unbiased selection process without any 
form of discrimination and that the organisation aptly reflects the 
labour market’s composition in terms of diversity. our in-house 
policies must ensure that discrimination and harassment does 
not occur and, should it happen all the same, that the matter is 
handled appropriately. 
our employee engagement survey for 2020 shows that sydbank 
focuses on non-discrimination and openness. one of the ques-
tions in the survey was whether sydbank treats its employees 
equally and fairly regardless of gender, gender identity, age, 
ethnic background, sexual orientation, religion, disability etc. the 
employees gave sydbank a score of 94 out of 100. 
no pay discrimination 
we work constantly to ensure that the salary that has been 
agreed with an employee is fair and appropriate according to the 
work to be performed and the qualifications of the employee. 
salaries at sydbank are analysed on an ongoing basis and salaries 
according to gender are also compared. 
there are many different professional groups at the bank where 
one gender is overrepresented. in terms of individual professional 
groups there are instances where the median salary for women 
is equivalent to or higher than the median salary for men but the 
overall picture is that the median salary for men is higher. the 
gender balance in the various professional groups and positions 
affects the pay gap at sydbank. the median salary for men was 
1.2 times higher than the median salary for women in 2020.
forerunner in equality
in 2020 sydbank participated in a survey by the employers’ as-
sociation for the financial sector and the financial services union 
in denmark exploring women’s path to management positions in 
the financial sector. sydbank is a success story – and we are happy 
about that. 
new target figure for gender diversity 
on sydbank’s board of directors
the target that the underrepresented gender would 
account for 25% of the board of directors was 
achieved in 2018. therefore in 2020 it was time to set 
a new ambitious goal. 
the policy for gender diversity on the board of 
directors is reviewed annually and in 2020 the target 
for gender diversity on the board of directors was for 
the underrepresented gender to account for 30%. 
sydbank’s board of directors consists of 8 
shareholder-elected members and 4 members elected 
by the employees. 37.5% of shareholder-elected 
members on sydbank’s board of directors are women 
and therefore the target has been achieved as regards 
shareholder-elected board members. the 4 board 
members elected by the employees are all men. 
according to the report sydbank’s culture makes both male and 
female employees feel included. this observation coincides well 
with the results of the employee engagement survey in which 
the diversity and inclusion score totalled 92 out of 100. 
sydbank’s employees aspire to management and both women 
and men at sydbank indicated overall that anyone – regardless of 
background – has an equal opportunity of being promoted. the 
report also showed that employees’ positive view of their career 
prospects is for instance related to day-to-day management 
involving itself in career dialogues. the employee engagement 
survey supports the findings in the report from the employers’ 
association for the financial sector and the financial services 
union in denmark. in the employee engagement survey syd-
bank’s score on equality was 90 out of 100. 
however at present there are far more women than men in ad-
ministrative positions whereas there is a preponderance of men 
in sydbank’s management. we would welcome more women in 
sydbank’s management and the report from the employers’ as-
sociation for the financial sector and the financial services union 
in denmark does in fact point out that sydbank may very well be 
34
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
one of the first financial undertakings to achieve gender balance 
at management level. the introduction of a quota regarding the 
management talent programme “talent for ledelse” will hopefully 
help us to move forward in a positive direction. from 2020 there 
must be an equal gender balance among participants. 
today 29.3% of management positions at sydbank are held by 
women. our target for 2025 is that 35% of management posi-
tions at sydbank are held by women. 
organisational composition
number of employees (ftes)
2,021
number of employees in flex jobs
20
employees in management positions (%)
13.0
absence due to illness (%)
3.3
employee turnover rate (%)
8.0
women board members (%) 
37.5
women in management positions (%) 
29.3
gender balance (m/f) among employees (%)
50/50
pay gap between ceo and employees (times) 
12.6
pay gap between women and men
across sydbank (times)
1.2
sexism has no place in sydbank
sydbank builds on relationships between people – human decen-
cy and mutual respect reflect the way we act, both internally and 
externally. therefore sexism and offensive acts have no place in 
sydbank. employees must feel safe going to work. 
we focus on preventing offensive actions. offensive actions are 
dealt with in accordance with the bank’s booklet on this topic and 
the relevant section in the staff manual. all matters concerning 
offensive acts will always be dealt with seriously and appropri-
ately by the group executive vice president, human resources, 
and the employee in question will be afforded the necessary 
protection. 
safety and security for our employees 
nowadays banking tasks can be carried out anywhere from a 
computer or telephone. this also means that the nature of crimes 
has changed and bank robberies are fortunately more seldom. 
sydbank has a comprehensive security set-up to prevent crimes 
against the bank and its employees. for instance all our premises 
are equipped with video surveillance systems, alarm systems 
and access control systems and there are limited cash handling 
services in the bank’s branches.
nevertheless conflicts and unpleasant confrontations still occur 
between the bank’s employees and customers whose expec-
tations have unfortunately not been met. these situations can 
affect employees’ physical and emotional well-being – in some 
instances so severely that the consequences are considered a 
work-related injury.
at sydbank there is no requirement that an employee is absent 
from work for an injury to be reported as a work-related injury. 
the assessment of whether an injury is reported as a work-relat-
ed injury and whether an incident is reported as an unpleasant 
customer confrontation is made in consultation with the employ-
ee concerned, the branch management and the head of security. 
the bank reported 7 work-related injuries and 6 unpleasant 
customer confrontations in 2020. 
our goal is for there to be no work-related injuries but we would 
rather report one too many than one too few.
good health requires commitment and action
the success of health-promoting initiatives requires a concerted 
and active effort as well as a positive attitude on a day-to day 
basis by employees, the working environment organisation and 
the bank. 
sydbank offers its employees a variety of wellness programmes 
to keep them healthy during the working day. sydbank’s head 
office has a gym and for instance we have an agreement with 
fysiofilm that gives employees access to short videos with exer-
cises to prevent and relieve pain and boost energy levels.
once a year a whole week is dedicated to promoting health. in 
2020 the health week – as many other things – was impacted 
by the coronavirus pandemic. the health week took place in 
may when many employees were working from home so it was 
necessary to find alternatives to the joint activities that were 
not possible due to distance requirements. several departments 
came up with great solutions to incorporate physical activity 
during the working day, eg counting steps and yoga. 
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
35
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
36
7
responsible climate footprint
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
37
7. responsible climate footprint
achieved in 2020
• co2 emissions reduced by 11% compared to 2019.  
• solar cell system set up at the head office.  
• 3 electric cars added to the fleet. 
• charging points for electric cars set up at the head office  
 
car park and the regional head office in sønderborg.  
• section included in sydbank’s code of conduct particularly 
aimed at suppliers and business partners. 
• light sources covering an area of more than 10,000m2  
replaced with more sustainable sensor activated led lighting.  
• less transport by private car, attributable however to the  
coronavirus pandemic.  
goals for 2021 
• to adjust the bank’s company car policy so that cars in energy 
class b or better will be purchased in future and to include elec-
tric and hybrid cars in the company car policy.  
• to continue efforts to reduce co2 emissions and to carbon 
offset the part of our electricity consumption that does not 
come from renewable energy sources by purchasing electricity 
generated by danish wind turbines. one ambition in 2021 is 
to replace an additional 8,000m2 of our existing lighting with 
sensor activated led lighting and we also expect to set up a 
solar cell system at our regional head office in esbjerg if the 
necessary permits are obtained. 
• to continue to report carbon emissions according to the  
greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol and to commence work  
regarding reporting of selected scope 3 emissions.
• to continue to search for new and better waste separation 
solutions. 
special risks and focus areas 
• the criteria for sustainability are under continuous develop-
ment. consequently sustainability may be defined in one way 
today and in a different way tomorrow. this places heavy de-
mands on society to stay updated on new sustainable solutions. 
• our code of conduct stipulates what we expect from our 
business partners and suppliers in terms of responsibility and 
sustainability. it is not possible to guarantee that our suppliers 
and business partners will live up to our expectations of their 
responsible or sustainable conduct. 
relevant policies and standards 
• company car policy 
• purchasing policy 
• sydbank’s code of conduct 
• greenhouse gas protocol.
overall objective
sydbank will be respectful of the environment in all aspects of its 
business and make a positive difference in order to reach its own, 
national and global climate targets. we optimise energy efficien-
cy on an ongoing basis to reduce the bank’s energy consumption 
and high priority is given to ensuring transparent reporting of our 
consumption.
credible co2 accounts  
 
 
 
 
– ambitions to include additional data  
in 2020 as well as going forward focus will be on co2 emissions. 
we are conscious of this at sydbank and as a result in 2020 we 
continued our collaboration with engineering consultancy com-
pany niras, which has assisted us in preparing the co2 accounts. 
the accounts are based on the greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol 
and are consistent with the method of calculation recommended 
by fsr – danish auditors, nasdaq copenhagen and cfa society 
denmark in their guidance on esg key figures. 
consumption – key figures 2018-2020
electricity (kwh/m²)
heat (kwh/m²)
water (m³/m²)
2019
2020
58.1
53.8
2019
2020
74.1
73.4
2019
2020
0.12
0.12
2018
62.7
2018
76.6
2018
0.13
38
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
co² emissions by consumption 2018-2020
in 2020 we reported scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. scope 1 
emissions comprise direct emissions from sources owned or con-
trolled by sydbank, ie emissions from transportation and burning 
of natural gas for heating. scope 2 emissions consist of indirect 
emissions from energy purchased by sydbank from a third party 
for its own consumption, ie electricity and district heating. 
in 2021 we aim to work on including selected scope 3 emissions 
in our co2 accounts. scope 3 emissions comprise indirect emis-
sions not deriving from sources owned directly by sydbank but 
deriving from our activities and it is our expectation that scope 3 
emissions will represent the main part of sydbank’s emissions, in-
cluding in particular via our financing of activities and our capital 
management function. scope 3 emissions may also be emissions 
from air travel, train travel, waste management and processing 
as well as embedded co2 in purchases of machinery, equipment 
etc. the inclusion of scope 3 in the co2 accounts will help to shed 
light on whether we can reduce our carbon emissions further. 
transport by car – a major item in the co2 accounts 
sydbank has a fleet of cars available to all employees who require 
transport for business purposes. 
transport by car is a significant item in sydbank’s co2 accounts, 
which is why we purchased 3 electric cars in 2020 to reduce our 
carbon footprint. 2 cars are at the head office in aabenraa and the 
third car is at our regional head office in sønderborg. our compa-
ny car policy will be changed in 2021 so that in future we will buy 
cars in energy class b or better and electric and hybrid cars will 
be included in the policy. the inclusion of electric and hybrid cars 
in the company car policy is related to our endorsement of the 
government’s road transport agreement, which aims to increase 
the number of electric and hybrid cars in denmark. 
in 2020 the bank’s employees drove 1,576,042 kilometres in 
their private cars for business purposes. this is 1,333,845 kilo-
metres less than in 2019. to this must be added transport using 
the bank’s cars. due to coronavirus restrictions the bank’s need 
for transportation was significantly lower in 2020 than in 2019, 
which is reflected in the number of kilometres driven. we expect 
that the bank’s need for transportation will increase when the 
coronavirus restrictions are lifted. 
monitoring of energy consumption 
sydbank has its own energy management which ensures that 
energy efficiency is always a consideration in connection with rel-
evant activities and efforts are made on a daily basis to lower the 
bank’s consumption. with very few exceptions the bank’s use of 
electricity has declined since 2012. part of our lower electricity 
consumption is attributable to new technology that gives us 
energy efficient screens, light sources, cooling systems etc. 
 
energy consumption as regards 90% of the bank’s building stock 
is monitored on an hourly basis via the system app.keepfocus. 
the system gives us an overview of energy used and sends a 
warning if there are variations in readings. more than 1,100 
alarms are linked to the system and we receive energy consump-
tion warnings of eg a constantly high consumption or technical 
warnings in case of insufficient data. the system is set up so that 
data can be calculated according to the ghg protocol. 
the head office in aabenraa accounts for around 40% of the 
bank’s total electricity consumption. this is primarily attributable 
to the significant need to cool servers etc. however the head 
office also has the lowest heat consumption, which is due in part 
to the heat recovery in our ventilation system. 
focus on energy optimisation 
in all the bank’s local branches we optimise energy efficiency on 
an ongoing basis and enjoy a close collaboration with relevant 
local players who can help to promote a more sustainable use of 
energy.
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
tonnes co²-eq
2018
2019
2020
transport (cars)
electricity
heating (natural gas/district heating)
updated with updated emission factors compared to the csr 
report for 2019
25.1%
50.1%
24.7%
32.8%
45.0%
22.2%
29.5%
41.9%
28.6%
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
39
40
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
the standard concept for our machinery, equipment etc is energy 
efficient. this means that our inventory consists of energy effi-
cient monitors and light sources. in 2020 light sources covering 
an area of more than 10,000m2 were replaced with sensor 
activated led lighting. one ambition in 2021 is to replace an 
additional 8,000m2 of our existing lighting with sensor activated 
led lighting. 
focus on renewable energy sources 
a solar cell system was set up at the head office in 2020. it is our 
ambition that the solar cell system will cover part of our standby 
electricity at the head office and therefore we project that the 
system will produce 370,000-400,000 kwh of electricity per 
year. 
despite ongoing energy optimisation and focus on the use of 
renewable energy sources we still need electricity generated by 
conventional energy. 
at sydbank we will take responsibility by carbon offsetting our 
use of conventional energy. consequently we decided that from 
1 november 2020 we would buy electricity generated by danish 
wind turbines to offset the unavoidable co² emissions. we buy 
renewable wind energy containing individual declarations as 
proof that the electricity purchased is generated by danish wind 
turbines and offsets sydbank’s co² emissions as regards elec-
tricity. furthermore the declarations specify that the electricity 
purchased comes from danish wind turbines that are between 
2 and 10 years old. by setting an age requirement for the wind 
turbines it is hoped that sydbank can help to promote the use of 
renewable wind energy.
however climate compensation is not our first choice or a carte 
blanche for co2 emissions. first and foremost we strive to reduce 
our emissions as much as possible by means of measures such 
as purchasing electric cars and energy renovation. consequent-
ly carbon offsetting is not a long-term solution but a current 
alternative tool. 
responsible suppliers and business partners 
sydbank strives to be a responsible financial services provider. 
if we are to ensure that our way of banking is responsible it is 
necessary that our suppliers and business partners also assume 
responsibility and make sure that their way of doing business is 
responsible. 
therefore sydbank’s code of conduct was updated in 2020 
and now it includes a section on responsible business activities 
particularly aimed at our suppliers and business partners. 
reuse of it hardware
sydbank collaborates with it company codeex to 
minimise the disposal of it hardware and ensure that 
resources and products are used more effectively. 
in 2020 782 units were sent to be reused. 
at codeex all data is wiped from the units and they 
are cleaned ready for redistribution at schools and 
institutions in europe and in third world countries. 
local networks focusing on sustainability 
it is important for us to take part in sustainability 
networks to keep updated on issues related to 
climate change but in no small part also to influence 
developments where we can. the group executive 
vice president in kolding is a member of the co2 
club, which aims to reduce the co2 level in kolding. 
businesses share their sustainable solutions with the 
group so that as many as possible can benefit from 
them. sydbank has told the club about for instance 
app.keepfocus, which helps the bank to monitor 
consumption on an hourly basis.
new waste separation solutions
ongoing efforts are made at sydbank to improve waste sepa-
ration. from 1 july 2021 common rules for waste separation 
will be introduced in all of denmark’s municipalities and in this 
context we will look into whether waste can be separated to an 
even higher degree. 
in 2021 we will implement new solutions for waste separation. 
our regional head office in kolding will be the first location to test 
a new separation solution but it is expected that the solution will 
be rolled out to all our danish branches during 2021.
 
a bio fuel system was installed at sydbank’s head office in 2013. 
the system can be used for food waste, for instance peelings. in 
2021 we will introduce waste separation at the coffee machines at 
the head office making it easier for employees to separate waste.
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
41
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
42
8
data and data processing
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
43
8. data and data processing
data collection
sydbank uses a wide variety of systems to collect data used in 
the csr report. the systems ensure correct and consistent data 
collection to enable data to be compared from year to year. in the 
investment area we use external business partners when consid-
ered relevant and necessary. 
as a rule data on sustainability and corporate social responsibility 
is collected once a year whereas internal reporting on many of 
the individual data areas occurs on an ongoing basis.
creating value
2020
2019
2018
financial highlights
bank loans and advances (dkkbn)
60.2
60.6
61
deposits (dkkbn)
95.9
84.3
86.3
number of employees (ftes)
2,021
2,107
2,130
funds under management (dkkbn)
109
94
87
market share – retail (%)
6
6
6
market share – corporate (%)
12
12
12
corporation tax (dkkm)
222
228
264
profit for the year (dkkm)
799
853
1,156
return on equity (%)
6.6
7.5
10.2
satisfied customers
retail (ranking)
2
2
3
corporate (ranking)
2
2
3
local sponsorships and fund donations (dkkm)
national sponsorships
2.6
2.9
3.9
regional/local sponsorships
8.8
8.3
7.7
sydbank fonden
7.5
13
13.6
trelleborg fonden
2.5
2.5
3.2
study travel grants
0.6
0.6
0.6
sydbank’s acquisition of alm. brand bank was finalised on 30 
november 2020. however the transfer did not take place until 
30 december 2020 and alm. brand bank will not be transferred 
to sydbank’s it systems before september 2021. we have there-
fore decided that data from alm. brand bank will not be included 
in this report. 
overview of data 
the below provides an overview of the data included in the csr 
report. the overview follows the thematic structure of the report. 
for each theme data is included for the relevant years or the 
years for which comparable data is available.
44
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
responsible investment
2020
2019
2018
active ownership activities
number of companies in portfolio
1,183
983
–
engagement with companies based on serious and critical violations
number of pending cases at year-end
45
57
–
number of visits/meetings with companies
71
45
–
assessment of effect of engagement on companies (number)*
good performance 
21
53
–
average performance
29
33
–
poor performance
2
4
–
no measurement (eg new cases)
27
23
–
exclusion list – companies in mature markets
number of exluded companies
75
68
–
number of reasons for exclusion – same company may have several issues
production of nuclear weapons
32
29
–
production of cluster bombs
29
25
–
production of land mines
4
4
–
violation of workers’ rights
3
3
–
violation of human rights
1
1
–
environmental violations
6
5
–
activities on the west bank
5
5
–
destruction of natural resources in western sahara
1
2
–
exclusion list - countries
afghanistan
x
x
–
burundi
x
x
–
central african republic
x
x
–
chad
x
x
–
democratic republic of the congo
x
x
–
eritrea
x
–
guinea-bissau
x
x
–
haiti
x
–
iraq
x
–
libya
x
x
–
mali
x
–
north korea
x
x
–
somalia
x
x
–
south sudan
x
x
–
sudan
x
x
–
syria
x
x
–
venezuela
x
x
–
west bank and gaza
x
x
–
yemen
x
x
–
* reference is made to the section on responsible investment (pp 48-49) under data and data processing immediately below. 
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
45
responsible employer
2020
2019
2018
employee engagement (scale 1-100)
job satisfaction
81
80
78
satisfaction with sydbank as workplace
83
82
79
job motivation
83
82
80
education and training at sydbank (completion rate)
prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing
98.7
99.03
–
processing of personal data
98.7
99.08
–
information security
99.1
–
–
investment advice – yellow and green products as well as mifid
100
99.02
–
property advice (mortgage credit directive)
100
98.69
–
compliance at sydbank
99.5
–
–
organisational composition
employees (ftes)
2,021
2,107
2,130
employees in flex jobs
20
20
18
employees in management positions (%)
13
13.3
14.1
absence due to illness (%)
3.3
3.1
2.8
employee turnover rate (%)
8
12
9.1
women board members (%)
37.5
50.0
28.6
women in management positions (%)
29.3
30
30
gender balance (m/f) among employees (%)
50/50
48/52
49/51
pay gap between ceo and employees (times)
12.6
12.6
12.6
pay gap between men and women across sydbank (times)
1.2
1.2
1.2
reported incidents
work-related injuries
7
11
10
unpleasant customer confrontations
6
8
9
46
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
responsible climate footprint
2020
2019
2018
scope 1 co² emissions (tonnes)
transport in sydbank’s cars (petrol)
36
43
31
transport in sydbank’s cars (diesel)
300
363
372
danish branches: owned, leased and discontinued (natural gas)
46
48
53
total scope 1 co² emissions
382
454
457
scope 2 co² emissions (tonnes)
sydbank’s head office (electricity)
406
586
613
danish branches: owned, leased and discontinued (electricity)
551
780
862
branches in germany (electricity)
128
146
152
sydbank’s electric cars (electricity)
0.4
-
-
sydbank’s head office (district heating)
126
127*
117*
branches in denmark (district heating)
515
514*
542*
branch in hamburg (district heating)
18
17
17
branches in flensburg and kiel (district heating)
86
89
87
total scope 2 co² emissions
1,830.4
2,258
2,388
scope 3 co² emissions (tonnes)
transport by private car (petrol, diesel)
199
367
398
total scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 co² emissions
2,411.4
3,079
3,243
scope 1 and scope 2 co² emissions by consumption (tonnes)
transport (cars)
535
773
801
electricity
1,085.4
1,512
1,627
heat (natural gas and district heating)
791
795*
816*
transport by car
number of kilometres driven in private cars for business purposes
1,576,042
2,909,877
3,161,828
consumption of diesel (l) in sydbank’s cars
112,964
136,698
140,277
consumption of petrol (l) in sydbank’s cars
14,943
18,074
12,933
consumption of electricity (kwh) in sydbank’s cars
2,806
–
–
consumption – natural gas (m³)
total consumption – all branches
17,838
19,192
21,090
consumption – electricity (kwh)
sydbank’s head office
2,596,850
2,763,782
2,889,161
owned branches in denmark
3,109,987
2,445,577
2,672,629
leased branches in denmark
395,410
1,216,532
1,267,131
discontinued branches in denmark
17,134
12,782
123,578
branches in northern germany
319,721
307,585
319,771
electric cars
2,806
-
-
total consumption – electricity
6,441,908
6,746,458
7,272,271
consumption – district heating (kwh)
sydbank’s head office
1,308,597
1,377,095
1,285,027
owned branches in denmark
4,591,426
4,275,458
4,478,711
leased branches in denmark
659,570
1,276,728
1,269,088
discontinued branches in denmark
103,670
13,385
181,727
branches in kiel and flensburg
324,436
349,426
345,956
branch in hamburg
73,118
73,118
73,118
total consumption – district heating
7,060,817
7,365,210
7,633,627
* recalculated compared to data published in the csr report for 2019. for further details see “responsible climate footprint” under “definitions” on page 50. 
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
47
definitions
the data included in the csr report is defined below. 
creating value 
financial highlights
all data is available in the sydbank group’s annual reports for 
2020, 2019 and 2018. 
satisfied customers 
customer satisfaction among retail clients is measured by epsi. 
the result for 2020 is from data collected from 1 august 2020 
to 7 september 2020. the customer segments sydbank favorit, 
18/29 and private banking are included in the survey.
 
customer satisfaction among corporate clients is measured by 
aalund. the result for 2020 is from surveys conducted during the 
period from november 2019 to july 2020. 
in both instances sydbank’s scores are compared to the scores 
of denmark’s 5 largest banks. the results shown are sydbank’s 
ranking in this context.
local sponsorships and fund donations 
nationwide sponsorships are agreed centrally and are activated 
throughout the country. local/regional sponsorships are agreed 
at a decentralised level (locally in the bank’s branches) and are 
activated locally. 
all sponsorships are registered in sydbank’s financial manage-
ment system. the figures do not include the bank’s sponsorship 
activation costs. 
in 2019 we changed the method of calculation for sponsorships. 
therefore the figures in previous reports are not comparable.
amounts donated by funds are based on data extraction from 
sydbank’s financial management system. the financial state-
ments of the funds are prepared after the publication of the csr 
report. the fund donations disclosed are therefore subject to a 
small degree of uncertainty. 
responsible investment 
engagement with companies 
the engagement process is carried out by sustainalytics on 
behalf of sydbank. the process is based on the results of system-
atic screening of companies’ compliance with well established 
international conventions and guidelines such as the un global 
compact, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises as 
well as human rights conventions and environment and climate 
conventions. the process is supplemented by a more detailed 
screening with regard to controversial esg issues. 
an engagement case typically lasts several years because it takes 
time to confirm, discuss and if possible find a solution. everything 
must occur in an active and constructive collaboration with the 
companies involved, which is not always unproblematic. 
engagement cases normally arise if there is suspicion of a 
serious violation of international conventions and guidelines. 
the suspicion emerges as an observation detected in sustaina-
lytics’ ongoing and very comprehensive screening of company 
news and data. observations of a company’s possible violation 
of norms and the registration of controversial esg issues are 
categorised according to severity. the scale goes from 0 (none), 
1 (less controversial), 2 (moderately controversial), 3 (significant 
issue), 4 (severe issue) to 5 (very severe issue). 
assessment of effect of engagement efforts 
sustainalytics assesses the effect of engagement according to 
3 categories of performance: good, average and poor. input to 
measure performance comes from quantitative and qualitative 
data collected during the engagement process where the en-
gagement manager responsible evaluates the response from the 
company and the active participation by the company. a protract-
ed period of time is needed to measure performance, which is 
why the number of companies whose performance is measured 
does not correspond to the total number of engagement cases in 
a calendar year. sydbank uses performance measures to assess 
the overall effect and strategy of active ownership as well as to 
assess specific investment cases at a company level. 
when sustainalytics assesses that a case has been examined and 
clarified sufficiently, it is registered as closed and filed. in this way 
it can be used as background material in any other cases with the 
company in the future. 
in other instances a case may be closed without a satisfacto-
ry solution being reached. sustainalytics accepts a 12-month 
period with no contact on the part of the company. after this a 
24-month assessment period commences where attempts to es-
tablish contact with the company continue. if contact is successful 
the engagement process will begin and efforts will be made to 
solve the case within 24 months. alternatively at the end of the 
period sustainalytics will register that no contact has been made 
and sydbank’s responsible investment committee will decide 
whether the company will be included in sydbank’s portfolios. 
1,183 companies were screened during 2020.
48
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
in 2019 data on the effect of engagement efforts included an 
additional engagement programme that is no longer used by 
sydbank. as a result the data from 2019 is not directly compara-
ble with the data for 2020. 
exclusion list 
the procedure for excluding companies with shares and corpo-
rate bonds begins where the engagement process ends. every 
quarter sydbank’s responsible investment committee reviews 
sustainalytics’ list of companies that should not be included in 
the investment universe due to non-compliance with the princi-
ples of the bank’s responsible investment and active ownership 
policy. 
certain companies are excluded on a permanent basis and 
without engagement. this applies to all companies with activities 
within the production of nuclear weapons, land mines and cluster 
bombs as well as chemical and biological weapons. the exclusion 
refers to the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and 
the un guiding principles on business and human rights as well 
as their underlying conventions. 
responsible employer 
employee engagement 
sydbank uses ennova to measure employee engagement. a 
comprehensive engagement survey involving 50 questions is 
conducted every other year. the results for 2020 are from the 
latest employee engagement survey carried out in september 
2020. the survey can be compared with data from 2018 and 
comparable data from a small engagement survey – a so-called 
pulse survey – conducted in 2019 has also been included. 
the survey does not include employees in temporary positions, 
persons employed as caretakers, employees paid on an hourly 
basis, employees on long-term sick leave, employees on leave or 
employees released from the duty to work. 
education and training at sydbank 
the csr report contains information on which mandatory train-
ing courses employees take and the percentage of employees 
who finish the training course as scheduled. the bank’s human 
resources has a follow-up procedure for employees who have not 
completed a course on time. together with the employee’s imme-
diate superior the reason for this is found and a new completion 
date is agreed. the data is extracted from the system videnba-
rometer, which is the digital platform where the training courses 
are taken and data is stored. data is extracted twice a year and the 
data included in this report is from 12 november 2020. 
organisational composition 
all data regarding the organisational composition is made up at 
31 december 2020. 
the number of employees is the average number of staff 
translated into full-time staff. data does not include employees 
released from the duty to work, employees on leave without pay, 
compensated overtime, employees paid on an hourly basis and 
parliamentary committees. data includes student assistants, 
maternity leave replacements etc. 
the number of employees in flex jobs includes employees in flex 
jobs according to the old and the new flex job scheme. 
absence due to illness is registered in sydbank’s hr system and 
includes the employee’s sickness absence, a child’s sickness 
and partial sickness. maternity/paternity leave is not included. 
sickness absence is calculated for the year as the total number 
of sick days divided by the number of full-time employees. the 
employee turnover rate is calculated using the formula: ((ftes 
leaving voluntarily + ftes leaving involuntarily)/ftes) x 100. 
gender diversity on the board of directors is calculated for share-
holder-elected board members. previously gender diversity was 
calculated for all board members and the figures for 2019 and 
2018 have been updated to be comparable with the figures for 
2020. 
the calculation of women in management positions includes 
all managers at sydbank with staff responsibilities including the 
group executive management. the calculation comprises all 
permanent and temporary ftes.
the pay gap between the ceo and employees and the pay gap 
between men and women are calculated on the basis of the  
median salary. pay is exclusive of any bonuses and overtime pay. 
reported incidents 
all kinds of physical injuries at the workplace as well as assaults, 
threats and robberies where an employee is offered psychological 
support are reported as work-related injuries. 
customer confrontations of an unpleasant but less severe nature 
and as regards which an employee does not receive psycholog-
ical support right away are registered as ‘unpleasant customer 
confrontations’. 
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
49
an incorrect emission factor was used in the 2019 co2 accounts 
due to a data error by an external data supplier. the emission 
factor for district heating was stated as 14 kg co2/gj instead of 
24 kg co2/gj and this resulted in a lower calculated emission 
figure. consequently the data tables in the csr report for 2020 
have been updated (in accordance with sydbank’s change policy) 
with the correct figures for 2019 and 2018, which illustrate 
higher correct emissions.  
scope 1 
scope 1 comprises direct co2 emissions from own buildings 
and leased buildings as well as transportation in sydbank’s cars. 
transportation in sydbank’s cars is calculated according to con-
sumption of petrol and diesel in litres as well as electricity in kwh. 
if sydbank’s electric cars are charged at the private residence of 
an employee the kwh consumption is not reported to sydbank 
and therefore not included in the calculation. data regarding 
transportation in sydbank’s cars does not include cars leased by 
sydbank’s customers via sydbank leasing.
sydbank collects data on petrol and diesel consumption from 
the 3 fuel companies with which the bank has an account. an 
emission factor from energy statistics 2016 issued by the danish 
energy agency and from the danish transport authority has 
been used to convert consumption and kilometres into co2 emis-
sions. the emission factor from the danish transport authority 
is the average emission per person per kilometre driven by car. 
the figures are subject to uncertainty as assumptions about the 
average number of kilometres per litre of fuel are embedded in 
the emission factor.
natural gas consumption is measured and data is collected in 
app.keepfocus. the emission factor from energy statistics 2019 
issued by the danish energy agency has been used to convert 
consumption into co2 emissions.
scope 2 
scope 2 covers energy consumption purchased by a third party 
which is used to generate electricity, district heating and district 
cooling. electricity, water and heat consumption as regards 90% 
of the sydbank’s building stock is monitored on an hourly basis 
via the system app.keepfocus. the remaining 10% is calculated 
manually or on the basis of invoices. 
sydbank has purchased “green” electricity generated by wind 
turbines from 1 november 2020. as a result the co2 accounts for 
electricity have been prepared using 2 methods: a location-based 
method and a market-based method. the data presented in the 
data tables of the csr report is calculated on the basis of the 
location-based method.
at sydbank there is no requirement that an employee is absent 
from work for an injury to be reported as a work-related injury. 
the assessment of whether an injury is reported as a work-relat-
ed injury and whether an incident is reported as an unpleasant 
customer confrontation is made in consultation with the employ-
ee concerned, the branch management and the head of security. 
data regarding reported incidents is made up at 31 december 
2020. 
responsible climate footprint 
in 2019 sydbank decided that the co2 accounts would be 
prepared according to the ghg protocol to ensure that sydbank’s 
co2 emissions will be calculated so that they can be compared 
with co2 emissions from other companies. sydbank has submit-
ted data regarding its consumption in 2020 to engineering con-
sultancy company niras, which has prepared the co2 accounts 
for 2020. all consumption in the co2 accounts is based on data 
from app.keepfocus except for district heating used by a few 
branches, which is estimated by niras. niras estimates the heat 
consumption on the basis of a branch’s floor space and the year 
it was built (year it was rebuilt, if applicable). the data for 2020 is 
made up at 5 january 2021. 
the co2 accounts are made up for 2020, 2019 and 2018. 
co2 emissions are calculated with regard to scope 1 and scope 
2 emissions and comprise sydbank’s head office, branches in 
denmark owned by sydbank, branches in denmark leased by 
sydbank as well as discontinued branches, which are proper-
ties or sites sold by the bank or no longer leased by the bank. 
consumption regarding sites and properties in connection with 
discontinued branches is included until ownership or a lease 
ends. branches in northern germany are also included in the co2 
accounts. the bank has branches in flensburg, kiel and ham-
burg. holiday homes and apartments are not included in the co2 
accounts as they are used by employees on holiday and therefore 
consumption is not considered to be business-related. 
co2 emissions are calculated using emission factors and degree 
day correction is carried out as regards 80% of the heat con-
sumption. the remaining 20% is assumed to be used for heating 
water (hot domestic water), which is independent of the weather, 
and therefore this consumption is not adjusted. degree day 
correction means that the calculations take into account whether 
the year has been colder or warmer compared to an average 
year. degree day correction is carried out on the basis of national 
degree days reported by the danish meteorological institute in 
their annual report “vejr- og klimadata danmark” (weather and 
climate data denmark). 
50
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
according to the location-based method sydbank’s electricity 
consumption is calculated from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 
2020 irrespective of trade with green certificates and therefore 
the purchase of green electricity generated by wind turbines 
cannot be included. electricity consumption includes all branches 
as well as sites where there are sydbank atms. emission factors 
regarding danish electricity are based on data published by 
energinet for 2019 where the 125% method has been used. the 
125% method allocates consumption from chp plants in cases 
where there is a co-production of power and heat where heat is 
assigned an efficiency rate – in this case 125%. the emission fac-
tors for the branches in northern germany are from the german 
environment agency. by using the location-based method we 
can measure how our energy efficiency processes contribute to 
reducing co2 emissions. 
the market-based method takes into account the purchase of 
this “green” electricity generated by wind turbines. to calculate 
co2 emissions according to the market-based method, emis-
sion factors for 2019 from the electricity declaration are used. 
electricity generated by wind turbines has been purchased from 
1 november 2020 and consequently co2 emissions from elec-
tricity consumption are calculated for the period 1 january 2020 
to 31 december 2020 but the emission factors for november 
and december are set at 0. 
district heat consumption is calculated for sydbank’s head office, 
branches owned and leased in denmark, discontinued branches 
in denmark and branches in northern germany. each danish 
district heating plant has its own emission factor depending on 
whether it uses eg oil, straw, wood chips or coal. a national aver-
age emission factor from the danish energy agency is used when 
co2 emissions are calculated and the 125% method is also used 
for district heating as is the case for electricity. co2 emissions 
from the german branches are calculated regionally with different 
emission factors for the specific district heating plants. emission 
factors regarding district heating in germany are from the ger-
man renewable energies agency (2016). 
scope 3
transportation by private car is calculated according to employ-
ees’ registrations of kilometres driven in the bank’s hr system. it 
is assumed that the number of kilometres driven in private cars is 
a mixture of transportation in petrol cars and diesel cars.
 c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0  /  s y d b a n k
51
independent auditors’ report on 
sydbank’s csr report for 2020 
to sydbank’s stakeholders
as agreed, we have examined sydbank’s csr report for the 
period 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020. sydbank’s csr 
report for 2020 has been prepared in accordance with the 
accounting policies described on pp. 48-51. 
we are to conclude on sydbank’s csr report for 2020. the 
degree of assurance expressed in the conclusion is limited. 
management’s responsibility  
sydbank’s management is responsible for the preparation of 
sydbank’s csr report for 2020 in accordance with the account-
ing policies described on pp. 48-51. sydbank’s management is 
also responsible for such internal control as sydbank’s manage-
ment considers necessary to enable the preparation of sydbank’s 
csr report that is free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error. 
auditors’ responsibility 
our responsibility is to conclude on sydbank’s csr report on 
the basis of our procedures. we performed our procedures in 
accordance with isae 3000, “assurance engagements other 
than audits or reviews of historical financial information“ and 
additional requirements under danish audit legislation to obtain 
limited assurance for our conclusion. 
ey godkendt revisionspartnerselskab is subject to the inter-
national standard on quality control (isqc) 1 and thus uses a 
comprehensive quality control system, documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable requirements in danish law 
and other regulations. 
we complied with independence requirements and other ethical 
standards under fsr - danish auditors’ code of ethics for pro-
fessional accountants, which rely on general principles regarding 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional conduct.
performed work
as part of our examination, we performed the below procedures:
• interviews of relevant company personnel responsible for the 
management and reporting of sydbank’s csr report.
• analytical reviews of data supplied by sydbank.
• evaluation of the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by 
management.
• on sample basis, tested data to underlying documentation to 
determine whether the information in sydbank’s csr report is 
supported by sufficient evidence.
we believe that our procedures provide a reasonable basis for 
our conclusion.
the procedures performed in connection with our examination 
are less than those performed in connection with a reasonable 
assurance engagement. consequently, the degree of assurance 
for our conclusion is substantially less than the assurance which 
would be obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance 
engagement.
conclusion
based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe that sydbank’s 
csr report for 2020 has not been prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the accounting policies described on 
pp. 48-51.
lars rhod søndergaard
state authorised public accountant
mne no. 28632
carina ohm
associate partner
copenhagen, 1 march 2021
ey
godkendt revisionspartnerselskab
cvr-nr. 30 70 02 28
52
s y d b a n k  /  c s r  r e p o r t  2 0 2 0
sydbank a/s
peberlyk 4
6200 aabenraa
denmark
cvr no dk 12626509
tel +45 74 37 37 37 
sydbank.com
info@sydbank.dk
