corporate 
responsibility 
report 2020 
communication on progress · tryg  a/s · klausdalsbrovej 601, 2750 ballerup · denmark ·  cvr no. 26460212 
contents
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
11
11
12
13
15
15
16
17
17
19
19
20
20
21
23
24
24
24
26
26
26
28
29
31
32
33
34
35
38
39
tryg at a glance 
ceo statement 
overview 
highlights 2020 
covid-19 
corporate responsibility board 
materiality assessment 
corporate responsibility strategy 2020 
actively creating peace of mind 
 
traffic 
 
health 
 
at home 
 
safety 
climate and environment 
 
the climate partnership of the danish financial sector  
 
climate risks and opportunities 
 
carbon emissions 
 
initiatives  
responsible workplace 
 
employee well-being
 
covid-19 
 
harassment 
 
diversity and inclusion 
 
social engagement 
business ethics 
 
security 
 
data 
 
whistleblower 
 
detecting insurance fraud 
 
responsible investments 
 
responsible supply chain management 
corporate governance 
corporate responsibility strategy 2023 
 
responsible company 
 
green workplace 
 
sustainable insurance 
environmental, social og governance (esg) data 
legal requirements 
the un global compact and the un sustainable development goals 
 
editor corporate responsibility | publication 26 january 2021 | layout marketing | compliance review pwc | proofreading semantix
statutory statement on corporate social responsibility and 
gender diversity at management level presented in accordance 
with sections 132 and 132a of the danish executive order on 
financial reports for insurance companies and lateral pension 
funds (nationwide occupational pension funds).
purpose
as the world changes, we make it easier to be tryga).
broad diversity of products
we offer a broad range of insurance products for private individuals  
as well as businesses.
attractive dividend policy
we aim to distri b ute steadily increas ing dividends in nominal terms 
and to pay out 60-90% of our profit.
tryghedsgruppen
tryghedsgruppen owns 53% of tryg and annually contributes around 
dkk 650m to projects that create peace of mind via trygfonden.
4 million customers
our 4,400 em ployees provide peace of mind for four million custom ers 
and handle approximately one million claims on a yearly basis.
a)  tryg means feeling protected and cared for.
tryg at a glance
business areas
tryg is one of the largest non-life insurance companies in the nordic region. we are the largest player 
in denmark and the fourth-largest in norway. in sweden, we are the fifth-largest insurance company in 
the market.
private
corporate
commercial
sweden
private provides insurance products to private 
customers in denmark and norway. private 
offers a range of insurance products including 
car, contents, house, accident, travel, 
motorcycle, pet and health. 
corporate provides insurance products 
including property, liability, workers' 
compensation,transport and group life to 
corporate customers. 
commercial provides insurance products 
including motor, property, liability, workers' 
compensation, travel and health to small 
and medium-sized businesses in denmark 
and norway.
sweden provides insurance products to 
private individuals within car, house, pet, 
child, boat and accident insurance.  
56%
1,344
employees
portfolio
1,100
employees
market position
4
market share
13.1%
441
5
3.3%
2,859
1
21.6%
employees
market position
market share
employees
market position
market share
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 3
20%
538
employees
portfolio
17%
291
employees
portfolio
7%
323
employees
portfolio
sustainability is more 
important than ever
for almost 300 years, tryg has, as a non-life insurance company, 
provided a safety net for our customers and created value for society 
by enabling people and businesses to protect themselves from risks. 
as our core business, we continue to ensure peace of mind for our 
customers in their everyday lives and thereby deliver on our pur-
pose: as the world changes, we make it easier to be tryga. this in-
cludes being able to act on, learn from and adapt to the changes and 
challenges we are facing as a society. as the world is transforming 
and risks are becoming increasingly complex due to globalisation, 
climate change, urbanisation and technological development, tryg 
needs to adapt to the world we operate in, which includes integrat-
ing sustainability into every aspect of our business. 
covid-19
in 2020, the world was struck by a new enemy: covid-19, which 
had a devastating global impact in terms of both health and eco-
nomics. lives and jobs were lost, companies were forced to shut 
down, and we experienced how fragile our globalised world is, how 
quickly it can change, and how a virus can threaten the global econ-
omy and financial stability. the pandemic taught us many things. 
more than ever, it is evident that sustainability is a basic precondi-
tion for creating a resilient, global society with healthy, robust and 
adaptable businesses. 
in denmark, we learnt a new word: samfundssindb. as one of the 
nordic market leaders, we wanted to lead the way in terms of 
reducing the spread of covid-19, while contributing to society and 
being there for our customers. for example, we offered those of our 
employees who have a healthcare background the opportunity to 
help out in the healthcare system on full pay. at the same time, we 
supported the danish and norwegian governments’ recommenda-
tion to reduce the number of people in the workplace. most of our 
employees worked from home, allowing other businesses with a 
greater need for physical presence to have more employees come 
into work. to help customers struggling to pay their bills, we called 
attention to tryg's option of paying one's insurance premium month-
ly rather than yearly. if this option was chosen, premiums which had 
already been paid were refunded.
atryg means feeling protected and cared for.
bsamfundssind means public spiritedness.
morten hübbe
group ceo
new corporate responsibility strategy 2023
in 2020, we prepared our new corporate responsibility strategy 
for 2023, driving sustainable impact, which is comprised of three 
strategic pillars: responsible company, green workplace and 
sustainable insurance. we have set ambitious targets, as we want to 
contribute to actual and measurable change. our target is to achieve 
carbon neutrality already in 2023. we want to reduce our carbon 
footprint by 30% in 2023 and 50% in 2030 compared to 2019 and 
will compensate for the rest of our carbon emissions. however, our 
goal is to compensate less and reduce more over time.
tryg being a non-life insurance company, one of our biggest impacts 
derives from our procurement and claims handling. each year, we 
make purchases totalling dkk 13bn and handle one million claims. 
making our procurement and claims handling processes more 
sustainable is an inevitable step on tryg’s sustainability journey and 
one of the most important aspects of tryg’s contribution to a more 
sustainable society. by trying to minimise both our own carbon 
footprint and carbon emissions deriving from our claims handling, 
we are able to contribute both to the un’s sustainable development 
goal 12, responsible consumption and production, and to goal 
13, climate action, to a higher degree than by only focusing on our 
own footprint. in 2020, we calculated the carbon footprint of the 
methods used to handle three types of claims with sustainability im-
provement potential in relation to carbon emission reduction. this is 
the first step on our way towards achieving more sustainable claims 
settlements with a lower carbon footprint and the next crucial step 
in tryg’s contribution to a low-carbon economy.
 
cop report
this communication on progress (cop) report underlines tryg’s 
continuous commitment to the un global compact’s ten principles 
on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 4
ceo statement
human rights and workplace responsibility            
climate and environmental sustainability    
the un global compact 
business ethics  
principles 1-6 (cross-cutting all principles) 
principles 7-9
principle 10
targets 2020
41% women in management positions
2% carbon emission reduction compared to 2018
results 2020
38%
51% reduction compared to 2019
policies and action plans
• corporate responsibility policy
• competency and diversity policy
• general action plan for diversity, including women  
in management
• outsourcing policy
• code of conduct
• supplier code of conduct
• climate and environmental policy
• corporate responsibility policy
• environmental report/eco-lighthouse report  
for norway
• code of conduct
• supplier code of conduct
• corporate responsibility policy
• responsible investment policy
• policy for execution of active ownership
• process for ethical screening 
• personal data policy
• code of conduct, including anti-corruption
• supplier code of conduct
• tax policy
• remuneration policy 
• statutory corporate governance report
• investor relations policy
systems and due diligence
• employee satisfaction survey
• risk assessment and materiality assessment 
• climate and environmental management system
• eco-lighthouse certification
• materiality assessment
• whistleblower hotline
• gdpr risk assessment and monitoring
• supplier management system
• materiality assessment
organisational anchoring 
• hr 
• procurement
• group legal/compliance
• facilities 
• procurement
• group legal/compliance
• investments
• investor relations
• procurement
  aview extensive esg (environmental, social and governance) data on pages 35-37 for specific data.
overview  
the table illustrates governance, targets and performancea 
corporate responsibility board 
the un sustainable development goals (sdgs)
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 5
highlights 2020
january 
on 22 january, tryg published its 
corporate responsibility report for 2019.
february 
tryg launched tryg bilpleje (car service), a 
new service product for our car insurance 
customers. the service product includes 
car wash, change and storage of wheels 
and two seasonal checks to ensure that 
our customers’ cars are safe and ready for 
seasonal weather changes.  read more on 
page 11.
july  
tryg initiated a new proactive recruitment 
strategy to accelerate gender equality and 
ensure diversity of thought in the individ-
ual management teams. to attract and 
employ female leaders as well as promote 
diversity of thought in management teams, 
we focus on eliminating bias in the recruit-
ment process. read more on pages 21-22.
march 
the world was struck by a global pandemic. 
as one of the nordic market leaders, we 
wanted to contribute. tryg implemented 
several initiatives to support our employees, 
our customers and society during the year. 
read more on page 7.
august
tryg launched the tryg sund (health) app, 
which consolidates the health of our com-
mercial customers in a single app. it creates 
a clear overview of the customer’s health 
insurance and enables the customer to 
report a claim and make appointments with 
therapists directly through the app. read 
more on page 11.
to limit the electricity consumption in 
relation to our data storage, we initiated a 
transition from a traditional data centre to a 
cloud-based modern data centre as a step 
in transforming our it landscape into being 
more energy-efficient and agile based on 
technology-enabled green solutions. read 
more on page 18.
october 
despite 2020 being a different year for 
everyone in tryg due to the covid-19 
pandemic, our employee satisfaction 
survey showed a record-high score of 80, 
up from a score of 78 in 2019. read more 
on page 19.
september
the metoo movement and the debate on 
sexual harassment flared up in denmark. 
tryg does not tolerate any kind of harass-
ment, and we have for several years had 
internal processes in place to prevent 
and handle inappropriate behaviour. in 
september, we asked all our managers to 
have a conversation on harassment with 
their team to actively address the debate 
in society. read more on page 20.
in tryg, we believe that physical activity dur-
ing the working day brings renewed energy. 
all employees were given access to a digital 
platform with video guides on exercises as 
well as tips and tricks on how to be active 
and take active breaks throughout the day. 
read more on page 19. 
november 
tryg launched a new insurance product,  
tryg senior omsorg (care), which is designed 
to provide extra care for senior citizens in 
relation to their health, accidents and home 
care needs. read more on page 11.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 6
guidelines for working  
at tryg’s locations
covid-19
in march 2020, the world as we knew it changed. suddenly, we found ourselves engulfed in a global pan-
demic caused by covid-19. the pandemic and the necessary global lockdown of societies everywhere 
had devasting health-related and economic consequences. companies were forced to shut down, send 
home and even dismiss employees. at the same time, governments and health authorities around the 
globe feared that national healthcare systems would collapse. 
tryg was also financially affected by the pandemic due to an extreme increase in travel claims caused by 
the closing of borders. yet, as one of the nordic market leaders, tryg was keen to lead the way in terms 
of reducing the spread of covid-19, while contributing to society and being there for our customers and 
employees.
supporting society and our employees 
we supported the governments’ recommendation to reduce the number of people in the workplace as 
most of our employees in denmark, norway and sweden worked from home, allowing other businesses 
with a greater need for physical presence to have more employees come into work. to ensure the safety 
and well-being of the employees in our offices, we took all necessary precautions. we offered those of 
our employees who have a healthcare background the opportunity to help out in the healthcare system 
on full pay, as we wanted to contribute to the national healthcare service.
being there for our customers
it has been important for tryg to support our customers during the pandemic. to help customers 
struggling to pay their bills, we have called attention to tryg's option of paying one’s insurance premium 
monthly rather than yearly, and premiums already paid have been refunded.
during the pandemic, the threat of cybercrime increased. therefore, we offered all businesses with up to 
20 employees free cyber insurance for three months to make sure small and medium-sized businesses 
were covered in case of a cyber security breach. also, we offered all small and medium-sized businesses 
the chance to attend a free webinar on cyber security when working from home. 
during the summer holidays, we offered all our benefit customers and commercial customers free use 
of tryg’s medical hotline, providing instant access to doctors. we wanted to ensure peace of mind for our 
customers in uncertain times. our medical video hotline was also made available to those of our custom-
ers who spend their summer holidays abroad.
observe the 
rules and take 
care of each 
other – both 
inside and 
outside tryg
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 7
tryg’s corporate responsibility board is chaired by group cfo, barbara plucnar jensen, and board 
members include the vice presidents from key areas representing tryg across the nordic countries. 
business areas are represented when necessary.  
the corporate responsibility board discusses corporate responsibility risks and opportunities and 
recommends actions for further improvements. the corporate responsibility board meets four times 
a year.
the corporate responsibility board plays an advisory role in supervising tryg’s strategic direction and 
initiatives, as well as recommending actions, which are reported to the executive board. furthermore, the 
corporate responsibility board approves the corporate responsibility report before final approval by the 
executive board and the supervisory board. moreover, it oversees and monitors performance of targets 
and follows up on or initiates initiatives for tryg.
 download terms of reference 
 download corporate responsibility policy 
in 2020, the corporate responsibility board’s efforts centred around the preparation of our new 
corporate responsibility strategy for 2023. 
corporate responsibility board
chair 
barbara plucnar jensen, cfo
corporate responsibility team 
legal/  
compliance
hr
procurement/ 
sourcing
communications
facilities
investments
investor  
relations
claims
private
commercial
corporate
board structure
“the sustainability agenda is essential to our 
customers, suppliers, employees and share-
holders. today, the agenda is broadly rooted 
– and it is both desired and not least needed 
among all our stakeholders. in our corporate 
responsibility strategy for 2023, it has been 
important to include all our stakeholders, but 
also to prioritise our efforts to make sure we 
devote our efforts to areas where we can actually 
drive and measure sustainable impact. to keep 
our promises and to make a change, we need to 
track and document our performance. we need 
to talk the talk, but more importantly walk it.” 
barbara plucnar jensen
group cfo and chair of corporate  
responsibility board
”
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 8
materiality assessment
in 2020, we conducted an extensive materiality 
assessment to identify the environmental, social, 
economic and governance issues that are per-
ceived as being most important to tryg and to our 
stakeholders. the results of the materiality assess-
ment have informed our corporate responsibility 
approach, including our corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 (see pages 31-34). the materi-
ality assessment ensures that tryg focuses on the 
opportunities and risks in relation to corporate 
responsibility that matter most to our stakehold-
ers. we update our assessment each year to make 
sure it reflects changes in our business as well as 
the external environment.
methodology
tryg’s materiality assessment process was under-
taken in collaboration with a consulting company 
to ensure that the assessment was conducted 
objectively and based on a well-documented 
methodology. research, engagement and analysis 
have been undertaken and have resulted in a list 
of material issues and a materiality matrix. the 
assessment is based on data gathered from inter-
views with both internal and external stakehold-
ers. this has been further validated by data-driven 
insights gathered from external, publicly available 
sources. this approach has allowed us to include 
the perspectives of all our most important stake-
climate change
customer well-being & peace of mind
cyber security
claims prevention
sustainable claims handling
responsible investment
natural disasters
data privacy
sustainable indirect procurement
digital innovation
employee well-being, engagement & development
welfare insurance
diversity & inclusion
social responsibility
business ethics
human & labour rights
waste
water usage
high
low
high
importance to tryg
importance to stakeholders
environment
social
governance
approach
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 9
holders, including our customers, employees, 
investors, suppliers and the media. the assess-
ment has been approved by tryg’s corporate 
responsibility board.
tryg’s materiality matrix
in the materiality matrix, each issue is colour-coded 
according to the esg (environmental, social and 
governance) issues involved. the red circle around 
some of the issues indicates that the issue is an 
approach rather than a concept. for example, 
diversity and inclusion is an approach contributing 
to corporate responsibility, while human and 
labour rights is a broader theme.
the materiality matrix allows us to decide which 
corporate responsibility issues tryg should focus 
on and invest time in by contrasting two dimen-
sions. the first (horizontal axis) is the importance 
of the issue to tryg and the expected influence of 
the issue on the success of our business. the sec-
ond (vertical axis) is the importance of the issue 
to our stakeholders. the most material issues are 
the issues that are placed high on both axes. they 
reflect tryg’s priorities and will continuously serve 
to guide our reporting, strategy and actions on 
corporate responsibility issues.
materiality matrix
corporate responsibility strategy 2023
tryg has formulated a new corporate respon-
sibility strategy, driving sustainable impact, 
which will govern our corporate responsi-
bility efforts up to and including 2023. the 
strategy is based on how tryg as a company 
and our employees can contribute to a more 
sustainable society, and how we can support 
our suppliers and help our customers make 
more sustainable choices.
the strategy is characterised by a strategic,  
commercial and holistic approach, the 
purpose of which is to integrate corporate 
responsibility and sustainability into every 
corner of tryg as an insurance company. as 
a result, the strategy is comprised of three 
strategic pillars: responsible company, green 
workplace and sustainable insurance. 
read more about our 
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
tryghedsgruppen
tryghedsgruppen holds 53% of the shares  
in tryg and annually contributes around 
dkk 650m to projects that create peace of 
mind in danish society via trygfonden. a 
substantial share of tryghedsgruppen’s profit 
derives from the dividend paid out by tryg to 
its shareholders. part of the profit contributes 
to financing trygfonden’s activities. 
in 2020, tryg paid out approximately 
dkk 1,559m in dividend to tryghedsgruppen. 
for the fifth year running, tryghedsgruppen 
paid out a member bonus to tryg’s custom-
ers in denmark corresponding to 8% of the 
annual premiums paid for 2019.
corporate responsibility strategy 2020
tryg’s corporate responsibility strategy for 2020 focused on four elements: actively creating peace of 
mind, climate and environment, responsible workplace and business ethics.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
e
m
p
l
o
y
e
e
s
distribution
own sales force 
and partners
processes
combination of 
in-house & sourcing
insurance
prevention
claims handling
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
e
m
p
lo
y
e
e
s 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 e
m
p
l
o
y
e
e
s 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 e
m
p
l
o
y
e
e
s
pricing
pricing according 
to risk profile
products
full non-life 
product range
atryg means feeling protected and cared for.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 10
tryg’s business model
tryg is a non-life insurance company. in a 
changing world, tryg makes it easier to be tryga  
for its customers by offering insurance against 
risks, efficient claims handling and advice and 
services to prevent claims from arising in the first 
place. making it easier for our customers to feel 
protected and cared for benefits all tryg’s stake-
holders – our customers, our employees and our 
shareholders. 
actively creating peace of mind  
claims prevention products that create peace 
of mind such as tryg sund, tryg bilpleje and our 
alarm and our rat blocker as well as activities, 
which create peace of mind in society such as 
lifebuoys and nightravens in norway. 
climate and environment
tryg’s climate and environmental impact and our 
efforts to reduce our impact through a carbon 
emission reduction target of 2% in 2020 as well as 
working with waste management and responsible 
consumption. 
responsible workplace
tryg’s commitment to managing a responsible 
company through taking care of our employees 
and customers through our focus on diversity and 
good customer relations. tryg had a target of 41% 
women in management positions in 2020. 
business ethics
tryg’s regulatory obligations and underlying 
actions to ensure compliance as well as good 
governance and high ethical standards such as 
action plans, policies, management systems for, 
among other things, responsible investments and 
responsible supply chain management.
tryg’s corporate responsibility efforts are closely 
linked to our business model and core business. 
while providing a safety net across the nordic 
countries for our customers as insurance provid-
ers in case of a claim, we also offer prevention 
initiatives to reduce and limit claims. we thereby 
provide safety before, during and after a claim.
actively creating peace of mind
actively creating peace of mind is one of the strategic elements of our corporate responsibility strat-
egy, through which tryg is contributing to society as well as offering relevant products with preventive 
elements to our customers. tryg is committed to actively creating peace of mind through four themes: 
traffic, health, at home and safety.
traffic 
car service
motor insurance is one of tryg’s largest premium 
income classes, accounting for 30% of premiums, 
and the safety of our customers and lowering 
the risk of accidents are high priorities for tryg. 
through our claims prevention initiatives, we offer 
products, which help and increase traffic safety. 
examples of prevention initiatives are tryg drive 
in denmark, sidekick in norway and smart car 
in sweden, which help to minimise unnecessary 
unease and reward and promote responsible driv-
ing. responsible driving also results in lower fuel 
consumption and a lower carbon footprint, and is 
thus more climate and environmentally friendly. 
a danish study from 2019 showed that 10% of 
cars in denmark did not drive with winter tyres in 
january, even though it is advised to change to 
winter tyres in the autumn. in the colder months, 
it is often harder to brake due to wet, cold and icy 
roads. thus, the braking distance of winter tyres 
is 1-2 times shorter than the braking distance of 
summer tyres, and car accidents can therefore be 
prevented by changing to winter tyres when the 
weather changes. 
an important aspect of driving responsibly is 
car maintenance. to increase the safety of our 
customers and their cars, we have launched tryg 
bilpleje (car service), which is a new service prod-
uct that we offer to our car insurance customers. 
the service product includes car wash, change 
and storage of wheels and two seasonal checks 
to ensure that our customers’ cars are safe and 
ready for seasonal weather changes. 
health 
travel insurance
in 2020, tryg launched a new travel insurance 
product in denmark comprising basis, plus and 
super covers. the super travel insurance includes 
vaccination of the whole household to create 
peace of mind for our customers when going on 
holiday and to prevent them from falling ill with 
the most common communicable diseases during 
their travels. 
the travel insurance covers one vaccine dose, 
including consultation fee, for each person in the 
household. our customers can choose from the 
most commonly used travel vaccines, including 
tetanus, hepatitis, yellow fewer, tick-borne en-
cephalitis, influenza and cholera. 
health app
in our busy everyday lives, it can be difficult to 
prioritise one’s health. tryg has launched the tryg 
sund (health) app, which consolidates the health 
of our commercial customers in a single app. it 
creates a clear overview of the customer’s health 
insurance, enables the customer to report a claim 
and make appointments with therapists directly 
through the app. additionally, it provides inspira-
tion for a healthier lifestyle. via tryg sund, we are 
able to push messages to our customers about 
the health initiatives we offer through our health 
portal, including exercises, dietary advice, advice 
on sleep as well as stress prevention. 
senior care insurance
in modern society, people live longer, and senior 
citizens will make up an increasing proportion 
of the population in the future. as a result, the 
demand for senior care is increasing. also, it is 
important for many to be able to give back to their 
family members by making sure they are taken 
care of in the third age and especially in case of 
an accident or illness. in 2020, tryg launched 
our new insurance product, tryg senior omsorg 
(care), which is designed to ensure extra care in 
relation to both health, accidents and home care 
for senior citizens. the insurance is aimed at peo-
ple who want to take out extra insurance for their 
elderly parents, family members or others over 
the age of 70. senior citizens can also take out the 
insurance for themselves. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 11
products such as tryg sund and our new travel 
insurance product contribute to realising sdg 3, 
good health and well-being, specifically target 
3.3 | by 2030, end the epidemics of aids, tuber-
culosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases 
and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and 
other communicable diseases, and target 3.4 | by 
2030, reduce by one third premature mortality 
from non-communicable diseases through 
prevention and treatment and promote mental 
health and well-being.
at home 
alarm and rat blocker 
tryg offers a wide range of insurance products 
with a preventive element such as our home 
alarm. 
tryg has included a rat blocker with its house 
insurance super package in denmark to help cus-
tomers prevent damage caused by rats, such as 
damage to sewers, plug wires or pipes. 54% of our 
customers choosing the super package include a 
rat blocker. 
the rat blocker prevents rats from entering the 
main sewers and sewage pipes and gaining access 
to homes. a follow-up survey among our custom-
ers showed a significant increase in peace of mind 
with 87.7% claiming to feel more secure in their 
homes after installing the rat blocker. 
boat monitor 
in 2020, we offered our partner customers of 
norway’s biggest boat union, kongelig norsk båt-
forbund, the opportunity to monitor their boats 
by installing smartboat one as part of their boat 
insurance product.
smartboat one is an advanced system that con-
nects the boat with the customer’s smart phone. 
the system is designed to identify and register 
changes to the critical systems of boats and to 
keep customers informed via their smart phones. 
the idea is to increase peace of mind and also 
prevent claims.
advice on protecting homes from  
climate-related risks 
on our danish and norwegian customer websites, 
we offer advice on how to minimise the effect of 
storms, cloudbursts and flooding.
in norway, tryg is partnering with uni research 
on seasonal weather warnings. based on last 
year’s seasonal weather warnings and the amount 
of snow on the mountains, we warn our custom-
ers about increased flooding risks and advise them 
on how to prevent damage caused by flooding.
tryg is a partner in climate futures, a norwegian 
project aimed at co-producing new solutions for 
predicting and managing climate risks from ten 
days to ten years into the future together with a 
cluster of partners in climate and weather- 
sensitive sectors. by participating in this project, 
we gain knowledge that can improve the value 
and relevance of the claims prevention advice and 
actions that we offer to our customers. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 12
initiatives for 2023
as a part of tryg’s corporate responsibility strat-
egy for 2023, we want to support and motivate 
our customers on their own sustainability journey 
by offering sustainable insurance products and 
services. our ambition is to offer our customers 
products and services with claims prevention 
measures to prevent claims from happening in  
the first place.
read more about our
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
actively creating peace of mind
54% of our 
customers choosing 
the house insurance 
super package include 
a rat blocker
tryg’s commitment to preventing drownings 
through the lifebuoy initiative contributes to 
sdg 16, peace and justice, specifically indicator 
16.1.4 | proportion of population that feel safe 
walking alone around the area they live.
safety 
the nightravens and lifebuoys are other prevent-
ive initiatives designed to create peace of mind 
in society. if we prevent crimes from happening 
by being present or making people feel safer in 
the nightlife or along the coastline, near lakes and 
harbours, it benefits our customers, our business 
and society.
lifebuoys
since 1952, tryg’s iconic lifebuoys have created 
safety along the coastline, lakes and rivers in 
norway. the lifebuoy is a vitally important rescue 
tool, and for decades tryg has provided lifebuoys 
to norwegian society. tryg’s more than 47,000 
lifebuoys are located from lindesnes at the very 
south of norway to svalbard, the norwegian 
archipelago in the arctic ocean.
increased demand during summer
due to covid-19 and the travelling restrictions 
implemented by the governments of the nordic 
countries, more norwegians spent the summer 
in norway, and especially along the norwegian 
coastline, lakes and rivers. as a result, there has 
been an increase in the demand for lifebuoys, and 
more municipalities, harbours and boat associ-
ations as well as private persons have asked to 
become lifebuoy sponsors. a lifebuoy sponsor 
is the person or entity responsible for putting up 
and maintaining the lifebuoy. also, the norwe-
gian municipalities have increased their focus on 
preventing drowning accidents. in these life-or-
death situations, a nearby lifebuoy can be crucial 
to saving a life. due to the increased demand, it 
was necessary to prioritise lifebuoy applicants like 
municipalities and boat associations to ensure 
that lifebuoys were put up at public places like 
harbours and beaches, where most people can 
benefit from it.
information videos to prevent drownings
unfortunately, norway experienced several 
drowning accidents last spring due to a high num-
ber of people enjoying the mild weather on and by 
the water. in the summer, tryg posted information 
videos on our norwegian facebook page on how 
to prevent drowning incidents. the videos were 
produced in collaboration with lifeguard instruct-
ors from norges livredningsselskab and provide 
guidance on how to wear and use a life jacket 
correctly. too few people use a life jacket, and 
many people do not know how to use it correctly. 
by producing and posting the information videos, 
we sought to highlight this issue and make people 
aware of the importance of wearing a life jacket 
the right way, since this is known to prevent 
drowning accidents. 
safe in water courses 
since 2017, tryg has worked with the norwegian 
society for sea rescue, region west, to offer the 
safe in water course to 12 to 14-year-old school-
children. the courses are run during autumn and 
winter and give the children a chance to experi-
ence being in the cold water, while being super-
vised by skilled instructors, wearing wetsuits and 
life jackets. participating schools receive a full day 
of education in understanding the risks associated 
with water, practising first aid and learning the key 
principles of self-rescue and life-saving. learning 
to throw tryg lifebuoys is also an important part of 
the course. around 200 schoolchildren received 
training during winter 2019/2020. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 13
lifebuoy saved eirik’s life
31 july 2020 is a day that eirik foss stene from oslo will never forget. eirik went to his usual 
swimming spot to cool down in the akerselva, a river that runs through oslo. however, he was 
not aware that the flow of water in the river had increased earlier that day.
“everything seemed normal, when i arrived. from the riverbank, i could not see that there was 
more water in the river and that the current was stronger than it usually is. it was not until i was 
in the water that i realised that something was wrong. the current was so strong, i was pulled 
into a small waterfall and down the river at full speed. i consider myself a capable swimmer, but i 
didn’t stand a chance against the power of the water.”
yelled for help
“i was thrown down the river and pulled under water until i was lucky to grab a pole. i clung to 
the pole and yelled for help. it was exhausting, and i panicked, afraid that i wouldn’t survive. i 
knew that further down the river there would be stone formations and concrete elements, and i 
feared – if the worst came to the worst – that i would drown,” he recalls. 
state of shock
luckily, people on the riverbank realised what was happening, grabbed a lifebuoy and threw it to 
eirik. 
“i was close to losing my grip of the pole, as i was cold and exhausted. the lifebuoy saved me. i 
grabbed it, clung to it and was pulled ashore. i was in a state of shock. i’m incredibly grateful that 
that lifebuoy was there on the riverbank – i could have drowned without it,” he says.
”
actively creating peace of mind
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 14
nightravens 
the nightravens are local groups of volunteers 
who walk the streets at night to create a safe envir-
onment, offering help and preventing unwanted 
incidents. the main target group is young people, 
and the mission of the nightravens is to be present 
where young people hang out in the streets or 
local squares. 
since the early 1990s, tryg has been the night-
ravens’ main partner. in addition to the service 
provided by the nightravens secretariat and our 
close cooperation with the nightravens board, 
tryg plans and hosts the national nightravens 
conference in bergen, norway, every other year.
there are more than 260 nightravens groups in 
norway made up of a diverse mix of volunteers in 
terms of ethnicity, gender and age, which have the 
additional effect of working as a social community 
network for the volunteers.
some groups are called dayravens and walk the 
streets during the day to create peace of mind 
among young people who often gather at local 
shopping centres or in city centres after school. 
in addition to the dayravens and the nightravens, 
there are the mc ravens who serve the same 
purpose as the dayravens and the nightravens but 
drive motorcycles. the mc ravens have quickly 
become popular with young people.
2020 was a different year for the nightravens due 
to covid-19, both for the local groups and for 
the nightravens board. the nightravens board 
followed the situation in norway closely and 
informed and updated the local groups across 
norway on a regular basis. during lockdowns in 
norway, the nightravens scaled down their activ-
ities in the streets to a minimum to minimise the 
spread of covid-19, but in summer and autumn, 
most of the local groups were able to continue to 
walk the streets, while complying with both na-
tional and local restrictions as well as guidelines. 
kristin stige Østevold,  
member of the nightravens board  
and head of nightravens rådal 
what is your role in the nightravens?
i became involved in the nightravens 
through the parent works committee at 
rådal school in bergen in 2012. i reached 
out to four schools in the local area, and 
nightravens rådal was established in 
autumn 2012. more schools joined, and 
today the group consists of nine schools 
in our local area. together with the mc 
ravens, we cover more than 50 square 
kilometres. in 2019, i was elected member 
of the nightravens board, which is the 
governing body of nightravens norway.
what is the impact of the nightravens in 
the local area? 
in rådal, the need for nightravens is 
still increasing and has been since the 
group’s establishment in 2012. rådal 
has developed into an urban area with a 
shopping centre, with both a cinema and 
several restaurants, cafés and bars that do 
not close until late at night, and the area 
has become a very attractive place for 
young people to hang out. in the past 20 
years, we’ve also seen an influx of families 
with children, but without there being any 
relevant activities for the young people to 
attend. meanwhile, we’re happy that the 
local business community supports us and 
acknowledges the usefulness of nightra-
vens rådal’s work. 
”
tryg’s commitment to running the nightravens 
secretariat contributes to sdg 16, peace and 
justice, specifically indicator 16.1.4 | proportion 
of population that feel safe walking alone around 
the area they live.
safety
actively creating peace of mind
climate and environment
climate change is the defining issue of our time, 
and we are at a defining moment. from shifting 
weather patterns to rising sea levels, the impacts 
of climate change are unprecedented in scale and 
global in scope. for us to be able to adapt to these 
impacts in the future, extreme and immediate 
action is needed by all actors in society. the cor-
onavirus pandemic might have had a temporary 
positive environmental impact through minimis-
ing air travel and travel in general, reducing the 
number of cars on the roads and even the use of 
public transport. yet, it takes long-term changes 
to create a more sustainable society. this current 
crisis has taught us that society has the capacity 
to swiftly make major adjustments and devise 
alternative solutions when necessary – lessons we 
need to apply to the current climate crisis in order 
to resolve it in time.
our materiality assessment shows that the climate 
and the environment, including climate change 
and natural disasters, remain material issues for 
tryg and for our stakeholders. extreme weather 
events such as flooding, cloudbursts and storms 
present a risk to tryg and are causing harm and 
concern to our customers and society, since 
environmental and climate-related events can 
increase the frequency of climate-related claims. 
tryg’s impact
tryg is not an energy-intensive company, since our 
carbon emissions are mainly associated with heat-
ing and electricity use at our offices, and car and 
air travel. however, we acknowledge that we are 
part of the solution when it comes to minimising 
carbon emissions. we support the danish govern-
ment’s ambition of reducing carbon emissions by 
70% in 2030 compared to 1990 as well as the ef-
forts to minimise climate change and its negative 
impacts addressed in the paris agreement.
tryg has a direct impact on the climate and the 
environment through our own internal operations 
and an indirect impact through our business 
activities. tryg’s climate and environmental policy 
sets out tryg’s commitment to minimising the 
carbon footprint and negative impact of our own 
operations and to enhancing a positive impact 
through our business activities such as product 
development and claims handling. 
 download climate and environmental policy
the climate partnership of the 
danish financial sector  
in 2019, the danish government set up 13 climate 
partnerships divided into industries, which will 
contribute to the government’s ambition of reduc-
ing denmark’s carbon emissions by 70% in 2030 
compared with 1990. 
in 2020, the climate partnership of the danish 
financial sector presented its action plan for 
how the partnership can contribute to denmark 
reaching its ambitious target. financial undertak-
ings will reduce their own carbon emissions by 
at least 70% by 2030. since the financial sector’s 
own emissions account for less than 0.1% of total 
danish emissions, the sector wants to contribute 
to the danish reduction target in four areas, which 
includes: 
1. setting targets for and monitoring the reduction 
of customers’ carbon footprints; 
2. actively engaging with customers; 
3. integrating sustainability in business models, and
4. reducing emissions from the financial sector 
itself.  
tryg supports the action plan and focus areas of 
the danish financial sector and will contribute to 
meeting the danish carbon emission reduction 
target. 
our danish trade association, insurance & pension 
denmark, is composing – in collaboration with 
its members – a set of reporting standards for its 
members in order to ensure comparable reporting 
on the financial sector’s four carbon emission 
reduction focus areas from reporting year 2021.
as a non-life insurance company, tryg invests its 
own assets and has a policy, strategy and targets 
for responsible investment. read more about our 
initiatives on responsible investment on pages 26-
27 and our new targets for responsible investment 
for 2023 on page 32.
tryg actively engages with and advises its 
customers on how to protect their homes from 
climate-related risks. on our customer websites, 
we offer advice on how to minimise the effects 
of storms, cloudbursts and flooding. read more 
about our advice on protecting homes from 
climate-related risks on page 12. also, our 
insurance appraisers and risk advisers advise our 
customers on claims prevention. 
tryg is integrating sustainability into its business 
model by incorporating claims prevention into 
our products and services. read more about our 
business model and purpose on pages 3 and 10 
and our initiatives on claims prevention on pages 
11-12. also, we are working towards integrating 
sustainability into our claims handling process and 
have set targets for sustainable claims handling for 
2023. read more about our targets for sustainable 
claims handling for 2023 on page 34.
tryg is committed to reducing its own carbon 
emissions and has implemented several initiatives 
to minimise its own carbon footprint. read more 
about our carbon emission reduction initiatives on 
pages 17-18. also, we have set new targets for our 
carbon emission reduction for 2023 and 2030. 
read more about our targets for carbon emissions 
reduction for 2023 and 2030 on page 33.
 download action plan for the financial sector’s 
climate partnership 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 15
climate risks and opportunities 
in the global risks report 2020, published by 
world economic forum, the top five mapped risks 
most likely to happen all related to the climate and 
the environment: extreme weather, climate action 
failure, natural disasters, biodiversity loss and 
human-made environmental disasters. 
environmental and climate-related issues such as 
climate change and natural disasters are mater-
ial issues for tryg and for our stakeholders. the 
changing climate is causing harm and is a cause 
of concern for our customers and society. also, 
extreme weather events represent a potential risk 
to tryg. however, the situation also represents a 
number of opportunities. 
physical risks and opportunities
extreme weather events such as flooding, cloud-
bursts and storms as well as changing weather 
patterns such as milder winters potentially 
represent a physical risk to tryg. environmental 
and climate-related events can cause an increase 
in the frequency of climate-related claims by both 
private, commercial and corporate customers. 
this entails insurance risks, which are controlled 
by limiting the size of single exposures and 
through the use of reinsurance, thereby capping 
the cost of large and weather-related claims. ad-
ditionally, the insurance risk is managed through 
geographical limitations and by refraining from 
offering certain types of insurance such as aviation 
and marine hull insurance. operating within these 
boundaries, tryg’s risk depends on the company’s 
choice of exposure within different segments and 
industries in the insurance market. tryg operates 
in relatively stable markets, while slightly more 
than 80% of premiums are in the private and 
commercial (smes) segments. quarterly fluctua-
tions are driven mainly by large and weather-relat-
ed events, and reinsurance is used extensively to 
stabilise the overall earnings level.
also, a potential increase in the frequency of 
climate-related claims creates underwriting risks, 
which is the risk that insurance premiums will 
not be sufficient to cover the compensations 
and other costs associated with the insurance 
business. therefore, tryg monitors data available 
on material climate changes and seeks to mitigate 
the risk of such possible changes by advising our 
customers on how to protect their homes from 
climate-related risks and by including it in our un-
derwriting and reinsurance. also, in denmark the 
government pays out compensation for damage 
caused by floods or storms through the danish 
storm council. in norway, damage caused by 
nature is compensated for through the norwegian 
natural perils pool.
claims prevention
to mitigate climate risk, tryg seeks to prevent 
environmental and climate-related claims. due 
to climate change, the temperature average is 
increasing in the nordic countries, and winters are 
becoming milder. as a result, a bigger prevalence 
of rats is seen, and the risk of damage to sewers, 
plug wires or pipes caused by rats is increasing. 
tryg has included a rat blocker in its house insur-
ance super package in denmark to help custom-
ers prevent such damage.
to prevent claims, we advise our customers on 
how to protect their homes from environmental 
and climate-related damage. on our customer 
websites, we offer advice for customers on how 
to minimise the effect of storms, cloudbursts and 
flooding. in norway, we warn our customers about 
increased flooding risks and advise on how to 
prevent damage caused by flooding.
tryg is a partner in climate futures, a norwegian 
project, which co-produces new solutions for pre-
dicting and managing climate risks from ten days 
to ten years into the future. tryg gains knowledge 
that can improve the claims prevention advice and 
actions that we offer to our customers. 
by contributing to the prevention of environmental 
and climate-related claims, tryg is able to support 
society and the transition to a low-carbon econ-
omy – an economy that causes low levels of car-
bon emissions compared with today’s carbon-
intense economy – while offering relevant pro-
ducts and services to our customers and increas-
ing our customers’ peace of mind.
reinsurance
reinsurance is used to reduce the underwriting 
risk in situations where this cannot be achieved to 
a sufficient degree via ordinary diversification. in 
case of major events involving damage to build-
ings and contents, tryg’s reinsurance programme 
provides protection for up to dkk 7.25bn, which 
statistically is sufficient to cover at least a 250-year 
event. 
in the event of a sequence of natural disasters, 
tryg is covered for up to dkk 600m after total 
annual retention of dkk 300m. tryg has also 
taken out reinsurance for the risk of large claims 
occurring in sectors with very large sums insured. 
tryg’s largest individual building and contents risks 
are covered by up to dkk 2bn. 
transitional risks and opportunities
the transition to a low-carbon economy repre-
sents a range of risks to tryg. one of the main 
transitional risks is the potential development in 
climate-related policy and regulation. future pol-
icy actions, both at a national and at eu level, may 
seek to either constrain actions which contribute 
to the adverse effects of climate change or pro-
mote adaptation. examples include the implemen-
tation of a carbon tax or the tightening of energy 
efficiency standards. even though tryg’s direct 
carbon footprint is limited, the implementation of 
such initiatives still represents a risk to tryg, which 
calls for adaptation. also, regulatory developments 
that include new disclosure or reporting require-
ments introduced within the financial sector 
to address climate-related issues represent a 
transitional risk, to which tryg has to adapt to stay 
compliant as well as competitive.
however, the transition to a low-carbon economy 
also represents several opportunities for tryg. we 
are able to utilise new technology, knowledge and 
data to improve our claims prevention measures 
and implement more sustainable claims handling 
processes. as an insurance company, much of 
tryg’s indirect carbon footprint derives from our 
claims handling. sustainable claims handling is a 
key area, in which we can become more sustain-
able and contribute to a low-carbon economy, 
while offering our customers a more sustainable 
claims handling process. also, sustainable claims 
handling reduces the use of materials, benefitting 
both the environment and tryg’s claims costs.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 16
weather claims, net of reinsurance
expected level 2021 (including alka): dkk 600m
dkkm
800
600
400
200
0
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
expected level 2021
climate and environment
initiatives 
tryg wants to reduce the negative impact of its 
own internal operations through energy manage-
ment as well as reducing carbon emissions and 
waste generation. 
tryg does not own its offices. we therefore 
encourage the building owners to make resource 
and efficiency improvements to the buildings and 
invest in renovating the buildings to keep them 
energy-efficient. 
in 2020, several of our offices in norway moved 
to newly renovated and more energy-efficient 
premises with better energy labelling to save 
energy and resources, including approximately 
400 employees in bergen and approximately 
160 employees in oslo. at our office in bergen, 
the building owner has replaced the ventilation 
aggregates in the ventilation system to recirculate 
the heat in the office and reduce energy consump-
tion. the production of heat has been integrated 
with the neighbouring building. thus, tryg’s office 
in bergen is now heated by a joint energy-efficient 
district heating and cooling plant. we expect the 
above initiatives to have contributed to a substan-
tial reduction in our total energy consumption at 
our largest offices in norway in 2020.
at our offices in norway, our building owners have 
established six additional electric vehicle charging 
stations in oslo and ten additional electric vehicle 
charging stations in bergen in collaboration with 
local energy suppliers to support the green transi-
tion. thus, the initiative supports norway’s target 
that all new vehicles are zero-emissions vehicles 
in 2025.
at our head office in denmark, we have installed 
passive infrared sensors in 32 meeting rooms, 
which means that 100% of the meeting rooms are 
now equipped with infrared sensors to make sure 
electricity is not wasted when the rooms are not in 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 17
investment risks
climate change and the transition to a low-carbon 
economy also represents a risk to the companies, 
that tryg invests its assets in. to mitigate risk in 
our investment portfolio, we monitor the carbon 
footprint and climate risk associated with our 
investments. we currently monitor our equity 
portfolio and parts of our credit bond portfolio and 
focus especially on transition risks and oppor-
tunities that arise from the shift to a low-carbon 
economy. our equity portfolio is characterised by 
low exposure to climate transition risks. going for-
ward, we will seek to further expand our climate 
risk monitoring and include a larger portion of our 
investment assets in our analyses.
carbon emissions
in 2020, tryg’s total carbon emissions decreased 
by 51% compared to 2019, correspond ing to a de-
crease of 2,626 tonnes of co2 in total and 633 kg 
of co2 per employee. however, 2020 was an un-
usual year due to the covid-19 pandemic, which 
significantly affected tryg’s car bon emissions. 
except for business-critical travel, almost all  
business travel across national borders was 
cancelled to limit transmission of the virus, which 
led to an 81% decrease in carbon emissions from  
air travel compared to 2019. under normal 
circumstances, business travel accounts for 40-
50% of tryg’s total carbon emissions. thus, our 
limited use of air travel in 2020 is one of the main 
contributors to the decrease in tryg’s total carbon 
emissions. in 2021, we are looking into how we 
can apply some of the learnings from the pandem-
ic in order to further limit carbon emissions from 
our business travel in the future.
from march 2020, most of our employees in 
denmark, norway and sweden were asked and 
advised to work from home to support the govern-
ments’ recommendation of reducing the number 
of people in the workplace. as a result, the elec-
tricity consumption at all our offices decreased by 
36% in total compared to 2019, while total waste 
production decreased by 45%, all contributing to 
the decrease in tryg’s total carbon emissions.
yet, tryg initiated several initiatives in 2020 to red-
uce the negative environmental impact of its own 
internal operations, which have also contributed 
to the decrease in our total carbon emissions. 
read more under initiatives on page 17.
for further details, see esg data overview  
on page 35. 
for 2020, we have included 13 of our locations 
(with 50+ employees) compared to five locations 
in 2019 in our carbon emissions reporting. the 
2020
2019
carbon emissions
electricity
stationary 
combustion
car 
travel
district 
heating
waste
air and
train travel
total
tonnes
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
climate and environment
2019 figures have been restated accordingly – to 
include 13 locations and data per employee – in 
order to be able to compare and evaluate progress 
from 2019 to 2020. our reporting for 2019 and 
2020 now covers approximately 95% of our 
employees. the updated 2019 figures will be the 
baseline for our co2 reduction targets for 2023 
(see page 33). 
in 2018, we set a target of a 2% reduction in 
our carbon emissions in 2020. since then, our 
calculation method and our data have improved 
significantly, as described above. due to this 
improvement in our data and calculation method, 
the 2020 results cannot be compared to the 2018 
results in an accurate manner. 
tryg’s focus on waste reduction contributes 
to sdg 12, responsible consumption and 
production, specifically target 12.5 | by 2030 
substantially reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.
tryg is focused on reducing its carbon emissions 
and is committed to sdg 13, climate action, 
specifically target 13.1 | strengthen resilience 
and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards 
and natural disasters in all countries, and target 
13.3 | improved education, awareness raising 
and human and institutional capacity on climate 
change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction 
and early warning.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 18
use. tryg generally adheres to a principle of always 
considering the more sustainable option when 
having to replace energy-consuming installations 
at our offices. 
eco-lighthouse in norway
eco-lighthouse is a norwegian certification 
scheme for enterprises seeking to document their 
environmental efforts and demonstrate social 
responsibility in order to create more environ-
mentally friendly operations and safer working 
environments. the scheme is based on a com-
prehensive environmental management system, 
comprising of a set of general requirements, the 
general industry criteria, which apply to enter-
prises in all industries, as well as more than 70 
sets of criteria applicable to specific industries. 
in 2020, tryg initiated the recertification of our 
offices in norway according to the specific criteria 
applicable to the insurance industry. we produce 
an annual eco-lighthouse report to describe pro-
gress and document the policies and procedures 
in place to manage our impact on the climate and 
the environment. we expect to obtain recertifica-
tion in the first half of 2021.
waste production
one of the areas in which tryg has a potential 
adverse impact on the environment is waste 
production. we are committed to reducing waste 
and consumption and are continuously working 
on minimising and sorting our waste at local waste 
stations to bring down waste volumes.
tryg has outsourced canteen operations at its 
head offices in denmark and norway, which cater 
for approximately 900 and 700 tryg employees 
every day, respectively. the supplier was elected 
on its high food quality standards and corporate 
responsibility efforts. this means that our food 
waste is managed and limited, and our waste is 
sorted. 
in the canteen at our head office in denmark, we 
sort food waste and regular waste into fractions. at 
our other large offices in denmark, sorting systems 
have also been established in the canteens. in 
2021, we plan to establish sorting systems in our 
canteens in oslo and bergen in norway.
due to covid-19, tryg had to change its canteen 
operations in collaboration with our canteen 
suppliers. initially, we introduced prepackaged 
lunches and disposable cups to keep safe those 
of our employees who were unable to work from 
home. this naturally increased tryg’s waste 
production. over the summer, we switched to 
reusable cups and to arranging lunch on reusable 
plates to minimise waste production. in 2021, we 
will be looking into how we can continue some of 
the initiatives implemented during the pandemic 
to reduce our food waste in the future, for instance 
by replacing buffets with serving lunch on plates. 
cloud-based data storage
as an insurance company with more than four mil-
lion customers, tryg needs to store large volumes 
of data. data centres use electricity to operate 
their it equipment and to cool their servers. the 
electricity consumption of a single large data 
centre is equivalent to up to 4% of total danish 
electricity consumption. 
to reduce the electricity consumption associated 
with our data storage needs, in 2020, tryg initiated 
a switch from using a traditional data centre to a 
cloud-based modern data centre as a step towards 
transforming our it landscape into being more 
energy-efficient and agile based on technology- 
enabled green solutions. our new data centre 
provider has made concerted efforts to bring down 
its energy consumption by investing in green in-
frastructure, more efficient operations and greater 
adoption of green it and renewable energy. 
initiatives for 2023
as a part of tryg’s new corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023, we want to be a green work-
place and minimise our own carbon footprint. this 
calls for a change of mindset, actions and habits. 
our target is to achieve carbon neutrality in 2023 
in relation to our carbon emissions deriving from 
scope 1 and scope 2 and from our waste, air and 
train travel in scope 3. we want to reduce our 
carbon footprint by 30% in 2023 and 50% in 2030 
compared to 2019 and will compensate for the 
rest of our carbon emissions. however, our goal is 
to compensate less and reduce more over time.
climate and environment
read more about our
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
employee satisfaction
employee benefits
welfare and goods
• business card for trains and 
buses 
• canteen arrangements 
• chiropody, hairdresser and 
massage arrangements at hq 
• insurance discount in tryg 
• shop where employees can 
buy products and services at a 
discount 
• leisure associations 
• gym and fitness agreements 
• holiday homes for employees 
• discount agreement on holiday 
homes 
• sustainable christmas presents 
work environment
• psychologist arrangement 
• medical counselling 
• pregnancy counselling 
• stress counselling 
• physiotherapy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
salary and pension 
• employee bonus scheme 
• company phones 
• employee grant 
• employee consideration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
holidays, absence and leave
• maternity and parental leave  
for men and women 
• care days and senior holidays 
• holidays in compliance with 
national holidays acts
responsible workplace
providing a healthy and safe working environment 
and securing the well-being of our employees is 
vital to tryg. our materiality assessment indicates 
that there is a risk that tryg can have adverse 
impacts on its employees through, for example, 
dissatisfaction, discrimination or the physical or 
mental working environment. to mitigate this risk, 
we are continuously working to improve working 
conditions for our employees.
collective agreements
tryg is party to collective agreements in the 
scandinavian countries, where more than 99% 
of our employees are based. most of our scandi-
navian employees are covered by these agree-
ments, and the rest are on individual contracts. all 
tryg employees are covered by national standards 
and requirements.
employee well-being 
tryg continuously seeks to improve the physical 
and mental well-being of our employees by im-
proving working conditions.
physical well-being
health and physical well-being are fundamental to 
employee well-being. we ensure that the physical 
conditions at all our offices are compliant with 
official recommendations for the physical working 
environment and prioritise the creation of opti-
mum conditions for physical employee well-being. 
we offer our employees physiotherapy and ergo-
nomic advice. it is crucial that our employees are 
motivated by their surroundings and provided with 
the equipment necessary to perform their work. 
several of our employees have access to well-
equipped gyms at our offices. in 2020, we reno-
vated and upgraded the gym at our head office in 
denmark. the gym has been equipped with some 
of the newest gym equipment, including sustain-
able and environmentally friendly body bikes 
made from recycled plastic from commercial 
fishing nets. 
according to who, sedentary work and behav-
iour is the fourth-biggest risk factor for lifestyle 
diseases. also, physical activity during the working 
day brings renewed energy. in 2020, all employees 
were given access to a digital platform with video 
guides on exercises as well as tips and tricks on 
how to be active and take active breaks during 
their working day.
mental well-being
the mental well-being and health of our employ-
ees are as important as their physical health. we 
offer psychological help to any of our employees 
who are going through an emotional crisis or chal-
lenge – stress, depression, divorce, accidents or 
deaths – either in their professional or private life.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 19
tryg
2020
2019
nordic
71
nordic
financial market
74
78
index
80
60
40
20
0
employee satisfaction
tryg’s annual employee satisfaction survey is key 
to measuring employee satisfaction and provides 
us with a starting point for talking about well-being 
in the workplace as well as individual job satisfac-
tion. 
in 2020, our overall employee satisfaction score 
increased to 80, up from 78 in 2019. despite 2020 
being a different year for all tryg employees due to 
covid-19, the score in 2020 is record-high. the 
score is above the average for the nordic sector. 
in 2020, 12 departments were supported in their 
work with the survey results, compared to 24 
departments in 2019. 
80
72
74
employee bonus scheme
each year, tryg’s supervisory board decides, 
whether a general employee bonus scheme 
should be established, which is released when 
specific yearly targets are met. 
in 2020, a bonus scheme was established, and a 
bonus was paid out to our employees. employees 
can choose between receiving the bonus in the 
form of cash or tryg shares. it is more favourable 
to receive the bonus in the form of shares, since 
we are keen for our employees to feel a sense of 
ownership. at the same time, there is a tax benefit 
when receiving shares compared to cash. 
new educational learning portal
employee development and education is a vital 
part of tryg’s ongoing success. in 2020, tryg 
launched a new learning portal, tryg learning. 
the new portal makes it possible for individual 
employees to easily access tryg’s education 
and course catalogue, get an overview of their 
planned, ongoing and completed courses and do 
e-learning courses. the new portal also makes it 
easier for our employees to have an ongoing dia-
logue with their managers regarding the develop-
ment of their competencies. 
covid-19 
2020 was a challenging year for us all. sudden-
ly, most of our employees were asked to work 
from home, i.e. from approximately 4,000 home 
offices. even though a few of our critical functions 
would still come into the office, almost everyone 
in denmark, norway and sweden was advised to 
work from home. the unusual situation called for 
swift adaptation. to secure the well-being of our 
employees and support them as they adapted 
to a new working life, we implemented several 
initiatives. for instance, our employees were 
allowed to take home it equipment and their 
office chairs to enable them to set up a proper 
home office. our group ceo gave weekly video 
updates to all employees to ensure that they felt 
safe and up-to-date. we established a covid-19 
site on our intranet to ensure that our employees 
felt informed. also, we published and launched 
several articles and instruments to help our em-
ployees arrange their home office and plan their 
working day, including physical arrangements and 
breaks.
tryg sent out two extraordinary employee satis-
faction surveys in the spring and one in the winter. 
these surveys showed that our employees were 
generally happy working from home, with general 
well-being scores averaging 4.1 out of 5. our 
employees were particularly satisfied with tryg’s 
level of information in relation to the situation, 
and the communication and attention from their 
managers. 
we supported our leaders with training in topics 
such as how to communicate and how to lead 
from a distance. also, a psychologist offered 
training on how to cope with uncertainty in a crisis 
situation. finally, we established a site on our 
intranet, where we supported our leaders with 
tools, training material, advice and guidelines.
during the pandemic, we have gleaned a number 
of learnings about how we work and cooperate, 
both locally and across the nordic countries. as a 
result, we have initiated a project entitled learn-
ings from covid-19 to ensure that we use these 
learnings in the future to create the right working 
conditions for our employees, both in terms of 
motivation, efficiency and collaboration, and also 
in terms of having the right office building layout 
to support our ways of working. in 2021, we will 
continue this work and start implementing the 
learnings as well as related initiatives.
harassment 
in the past couple of years, the metoo movement 
and debate on sexual harassment have had a 
strong voice and societal impact all over the world 
as well as in the nordic countries. 
as a company, tryg has a responsibility for creat-
ing a safe, trustful and motivating environment 
with equal opportunities for our employees. tryg 
does not tolerate any kind of harassment, and we 
have for several years – even before metoo – had 
internal processes in place to prevent and handle 
inappropriate behaviour. 
tryg’s code of conduct encourages all employees 
to speak up if they experience abusive behaviour. 
employees can either talk to their direct man-
ager, staff representative, occupational health and 
safety representative or hr or use our anonymous 
whistleblower hotline.
in tryg, we see this as an inevitable topic for our 
leaders and management team to focus on. as a 
result, in autumn 2020, we asked all our man-
agers to have a conversation with their team about 
harassment to actively address the debate in 
society and ensure that we in tryg have a respect-
ful company culture. 
there have been no officially reported cases of 
harassment in tryg. however, we are conscious 
that episodes of inappropriate behaviour are diffi-
cult to completely avoid and also that such epi-
sodes are not always reported due to the discom-
fort of addressing inappropriate behaviour. thus, 
it is of high priority for tryg to create a trustful and 
honest culture, where employees respect each 
other’s boundaries and feel safe to speak up. this 
remains an important focus area for tryg.
 download code of conduct 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 20
responsible workplace
diversity and inclusion 
being a diverse and inclusive workplace is an im-
portant priority for tryg. we believe that a diverse 
representation of employees and, more import-
antly, diversity of thought are key to the future 
success of tryg. it is important that we reflect the 
society that we are part of, and we need a diverse 
pool of employees and leaders with different 
backgrounds, skills and experience to match the 
changing needs of our customers and society. 
tryg believes that an inclusive culture is key to 
attracting new talent, but also to motivating 
and retaining existing employees. this includes 
taking our employees’ life situation and work-life 
balance into consideration. it is important for 
us that all our employees are able to adjust their 
work schedule when their life situation changes. 
we offer favourable paternity leave arrangements 
for our male employees and urge them to make 
use of these. this is both rewarding for our male 
employees, their children as well as their families, 
but also for tryg as a business. 
women in management
the financial sector is generally characterised 
by low female representation in management 
positions, which is a challenge when it comes to 
diversity and inclusion. by focusing on gender 
balance and promoting diversity of thought in our 
management teams, tryg is committed to creating 
a positive change in our industry as well as in 
society. 
for several years, tryg has had a strong focus on 
diversity and has been aiming to increase the 
number of women in management positions. we 
do not focus on diversity just because it is the right 
thing to do, but also because we firmly believe that 
a higher number of women in management will 
increase our talent pool and create an engaging, 
successful company culture that can attract and 
retain the best talents. 
tryg has increased the number of women in 
management positions from 35% in 2019 to 38% 
in 2020 through a successful strong focus on 
improving gender balance. as a result, a 50/50 
gender balance for managerial recruitments was 
achieved in 2020. while we have made significant 
progress in recent years, we still have some way to 
go before meeting our 2020 group target of 41% 
women in management positions.
in norway, the group target was met and exceed-
ed with 42% women in management positions, 
which is also exceeding the norwegian national 
average of 36%. in sweden, moderna’ s share of 
women in management positions increased to 
40% and is now on a par with the national average 
of 39%. in denmark, the share of women in man-
agement positions was 37%, which is well above 
denmark’s national average on gender balance in 
management, which was at 26.7% in 2020a . 
in denmark and sweden, we will continue to work 
towards our target of 41% women in management 
positions in our next strategy period towards 
2023, while in norway, we will remain focused on 
maintaining and improving the gender balance 
further. 
we realise there are no quick or easy solutions and 
that creating the cultural change required to meet
our target will take time. hence, further actions 
will be required to realise our target of 41% 
women in management positions in 2023. this 
involves looking at the barriers and focusing on 
the underlying structures, hr processes and our 
organisational culture.
with barbara plucnar jensen as tryg’s group cfo, 
gender diversity on tryg’s executive board is at 
25%. tryg’s supervisory board is composed of six 
men and six women, and under danish law as well 
as tryg’s own policy, there is equality among the 
genders.
  asource: world economic forum global gender gap report 2020. def.: legislators, senior officials and managers.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 21
responsible workplace
it is important that we 
reflect the society that we 
are part of, and we need a 
diverse pool of employees 
and leaders with different 
backgrounds, skills and 
experience to match the 
changing needs of our 
customers and society
diversity of thought in management teams
focusing on gender diversity is one element of 
tryg’s diversity and inclusion strategy. we believe 
that diverse management teams make better 
decisions and are more innovative. in 2020, we 
broadened our diversity agenda to include the 
promotion of diversity of thought in management 
teams. we will be focusing on increasing diversity 
for three factors: gender, age and industry/experi-
ence. 
our ambition for 2023 is to improve the number 
of management teams that are diverse in these 
three respects. responsibility for realising the 
ambition will be anchored in each of our business 
areas, and each business area is expected to set its 
own specific goals for how to work with broaden-
ing diversity amongst their management teams as 
well as report their goals to the executive board. 
hr will support the business areas in having the 
right dialogues with their management teams and 
in securing progress.  
activities to increase diversity and inclusion
to attract, hire and retain female leaders as well 
as increase diversity in management teams, tryg’s 
action plan for diversity for 2023 focuses on elimin-
ating bias in recruitment and hr processes. 
tryg will recruit the candidate with the best 
competencies and skills for the team, and we are 
striving to hire candidates that will help increase 
diversity of thought in our management teams. 
a concrete initiative involves external candidate 
searches for management positions in cases of 
limited applicant pool diversity. 
in addition, we are also reducing unconscious bias 
in our recruitment process through data collec-
tion and through unconscious bias training of our 
hiring managers and by introducing them to the 
many opportunities that come with a more diverse 
pool of employees and leaders. 
we are focusing on building an inclusive culture 
by raising awareness and training our leaders on 
how to lead diverse teams in our leadership pro-
grammes. as a next step, we will focus even more 
on identifying and developing diversified talent in 
our talent and succession management processes.
as a member of the danish diversity council, tryg 
remains committed to helping to inspire and grow 
the number of women in management. in 2021, 
tryg will be sending five potential female senior 
leaders from norway, denmark and sweden to 
the advanced leadership programme facilitated 
by the diversity council to strengthen our female 
talent pipeline.
 download general action plan for diversity, 
including women in management
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 22
men
%
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
women
age 
<30
years
age 
30-49
years
age 
>50
years
flexi 
job
employee mix
initiatives for 2023
as a part of tryg’s corporate responsibility strat-
egy for 2023, we continue our focus on diversity 
and inclusion by aiming to increase the number 
of women in management positions to 41% by 
2023. also, it is our ambition to increase diversity 
of thought in our management teams by hiring 
candidates of different ages and genders and 
with different industry experience to contribute to 
tryg’s continued development and success. 
responsible workplace
read more about our 
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
tryg’s commitment to increasing the number of 
women in management positions contributes 
to sdg 5, gender equality, specifically indica-
tor 5.5.2 | proportion of women in managerial 
positions.
social engagement
as part of our commitment to the un sustainable 
development goals and sdg 17 on partnerships, 
we believe that working across sectors and 
engaging with various stakeholders are part of our 
responsibility and a way to create impact. 
teach first denmark: creating equal opportun-
ities for all schoolchildren - regardless of their 
socio-economic background  
one in six children in denmark leave elemen-
tary school without the basic reading, writing or 
math skills needed to qualify for upper secondary 
education. social background is a significant part 
of the root cause. a bad start at school can impact 
your opportunities in life. this is an issue for soci-
ety and for companies due to the loss of a pool of 
potential talent. tryg is an active supporter of sdg 
4, quality education, and wants to be an inclusive 
workplace. having a diverse workforce starts with 
ensuring that the conditions needed to educate 
potential future employees exist. 
in 2019, tryg launched a partnership with teach 
first denmark, a non-profit organisation working 
to create opportunities for all children in denmark, 
and a local school in denmark. tryg was supposed 
to welcome eleven school-children from tingbjerg 
skole as interns for a week at our head office in 
denmark, where the plan was for them to expe-
rience the skills needed to work in an insurance 
company and the possible job opportunities. un-
fortunately, we had to postpone their internships 
due to the outbreak of covid-19.
mattip: making insurance fun 
tryg is engaged in a partnership with mattip, 
a free online portal for math teachers, where 
math assignments are themed on insurance. the 
assignments are targeted at children aged 9-16. 
together with mattip, we help young people gain 
knowledge about the importance of insurance. 
the assignments relate to different insurance top-
ics which are relevant to young people, including 
cyber security, theft and travelling. the purpose 
of the assignments is to teach children and young 
people both mathematics and basic insurance 
knowledge in a fun and relevant way.
employee fundraising for the danish  
cancer society
in october 2020, tryg’s danish employees do-
nated more than dkk 250,000 to knæk cancer, 
the annual national fundraising campaign for the 
danish cancer society. behind the employee 
fundraising initiative was our danish call centre 
employee christina christophersen, and together 
with her tryg colleagues, she raised an impressive 
amount of money for people in denmark affected 
by cancer and their families. 
tryg’s commitment to strengthening education 
and knowledge about insurance for school-
children and our partnership with teach first 
denmark contribute to sdg 4, quality education, 
specifically indicator 4.3.1 | participation rate of 
youth and adults in formal and non-formal edu-
cation and training in the previous 12 months, by 
sex and target 4.4 | by 2030, substantially increase 
the number of youth and adults who have relevant 
skills, including technical and vocational skills, for 
employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship.
tryg’s partnership commitments contribute 
to sdg 17, partnerships, specifically target 
17.17 | encourage and promote effective public, 
public-private and civil society partnerships, 
building on the experience and resourcing 
strategies of partnerships.
responsible workplace
christina christophersen, principal
organiser of employee fundraising for 
the danish cancer society
what was your motivation to initiate an 
employee fundraising?
one in three danes are diagnosed with cancer 
so most of us have a dear friend or family 
member who has been diagnosed with cancer. 
i think it is a cause we can all relate to in some 
way. 
how did it feel to donate the money on behalf 
of the danish employees?
being able to donate that amount of money on 
behalf of my colleagues made me feel unique-
ly proud. i think it’s very impressive that we’ve 
been able to raise dkk 250,000, and i’m so 
”
proud of and grateful for the support i have re-
ceived from everybody in tryg across depart-
ments, business areas and the whole country 
– and that tryg as a company supports employee 
initiatives like this. 
how did covid-19 affect the fundraising?
we had to think out of the box, since we could not 
arrange physical events like we’ve done in the past. 
this time, employees were able to buy lottery 
tickets online. also, managers acted as ambas-
sadors, which increased the exposure of the 
initiative like never before. the help and support 
i’ve received from both colleagues and managers 
to ensure cool prizes that were worth winning was 
priceless. i’ll definitely repeat this year’s initiati-
ves in 2021, since they proved very effective and 
successful. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 23
business ethics
ethics are essential for responsible business 
conduct. tryg is committed to running an ethical, 
transparent and responsible business. our materi-
ality assessment shows that business ethics, data 
privacy and cyber security are material matters to 
tryg. building knowledge and capacity on these 
issues, not only internally among our employees 
through, for example, e-learning, but in all our 
business relations, requires continuous attention.
our commitment to ethical and strong corporate 
governance is the foundation on which we build 
our business. tryg’s code of conduct defines 
the rules, which all employees are required to 
adhere to. our tax policy and anti-corruption 
policy further outline our commitment to acting 
as a responsible company. our supplier code of 
conduct sets out minimum requirements for our 
suppliers and partners to operate in accordance 
with responsible business principles and in full 
compliance with all applicable legislation and 
regulations. tryg’s responsible investment policy 
outlines the principles we follow to ensure that 
our investments are conducted in accordance with 
our values. 
 download code of conduct 
 download supplier code of conduct 
 download tax policy 
 download anti-corruption policy 
 download responsible investment policy
in 2020, we implemented a new nordic compli-
ance system. the system facilitates our record-
keeping, elaboration of policies, procedures and 
risk assessments. 
we have updated our code of conduct to reflect 
the values of society and to encompass the issues 
that are currently of great importance to our stake-
holders and our business. this includes elabora-
tion of our standpoints and expectations towards 
our employees as regards employee well-being, 
suppliers and partners, human rights, the climate 
and the environment, financial crimes, including 
money laundering, financial sanctions and anti-
corruption as well as data ethics. also, we have 
implemented a supplier code of conduct that 
sets out minimum requirements for our suppliers 
and partners. read more about our work with our 
suppliers and partners on page 28.
security 
as an insurance company for which digitalisation 
and innovation are high priorities, tryg is exposed 
to several security threats that must be mitigated. 
it is vital that we pay attention to security, since 
a high level of security creates a safe workplace 
as well as the basis for a successful and adaptive 
business.
to ensure a high level of security, it is important 
that our employees are aware of and comply with 
tryg’s security rules for employees, which cover 
topics such as emails, it equipment and confiden-
tial material. to uphold our security level, we test 
our employees in their knowledge of our security 
rules once a year. the test is mandatory for all our 
employees in denmark, norway and sweden. 
cyber security
cyber security is an important part of tryg’s work 
with security, as we are dependent on fully func-
tional it systems to perform our work and run our 
business as an insurance company. tryg complies 
with the iso 27001 standard on information 
security management, on which our information 
security rules are based. it is important that our 
employees are mindful of how to use our it sys-
tems in a secure and responsible manner, which 
is why several cyber security-related topics are 
included in our security rules for employees.
tryg pays particular attention to phishing and 
phishing attacks, as the majority of all ransomware 
attacks happen trough phishing. to increase tryg’s 
cyber security level, we have developed an email 
filter that automatically detects many of the phish-
ing emails our employees receive on a daily basis. 
to raise awareness and educate our employees, 
we also run campaigns that ‘test’ our employees 
by sending them phishing emails. if an employee 
clicks on a link in the phishing emails, they will be 
taken to an online training site. the goal is to teach 
our employees to spot any phishing emails that 
may get through our phishing email filter.
in 2020, tryg has spearheaded the development 
of the business cybersecurity ambassador course 
offered by the danish insurance academy. the 
purpose of the course is to enable participants to 
spot and handle it security breaches by provid-
ing them with a fundamental understanding of 
cybercrime and cyber security. in january 2021, 
14 tryg employees from denmark, norway and 
sweden will be doing the business cybersecurity 
ambassador course in order to further improve 
tryg’s cyber security level. 
data
data privacy, including gdpr and data ethics are 
important issues for tryg, as we deal with personal 
data on a daily basis, including sensitive data 
about our customers, those insured, our employ-
ees etc.
data privacy 
as an insurance company, we deal with person-
al data on a daily basis, and ensuring that our 
customers’ personal data are stored and handled 
in a lawful, secure and compliant manner is a high 
priority for tryg. through our personal data policy, 
which is available on our website, we seek to be 
transparent about how we collect, process and 
use our customers’ personal data. in the policy, 
we describe whom we process data about, which 
data we collect, which sources we collect data 
from, whom we share the data with and for how 
long we store the data.
 download personal data policy
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 24
to support our efforts to ensure that the personal 
data that we deal with are stored and handled in a 
compliant manner, we have established a special 
internal gdpr board charged with governing 
tryg’s compliance with all applicable privacy regu-
lations and industry practice as well as addressing 
material data ethical issues. 
tryg has a data protection officer, who advises the 
organisation on tryg’s obligations under applic-
able privacy law and surveils that tryg’s poli-
cies, processes and systems are compliant with 
applicable privacy law and that privacy training of 
employees takes place. 
as part of tryg’s gdpr awareness activities target-
ed at its employees, tryg has designated a specific 
gdpr site on the intranet to inform and guide 
employees on daily data privacy matters such as 
what a data breach is and how to report it, the 
rights of our customers and other persons, about 
whom we hold personal information, require-
ments for risk assessments of our processes, sys-
tems and vendors as well as a faq site. the gdpr 
site is available for all our employees in denmark, 
norway and sweden. 
our internal procedures for handling data 
breaches enable all employees in denmark, 
norway and sweden to report any data breaches. 
to strengthen this process, in 2020, we launched 
a new digital platform for reporting data breaches 
for our danish employees. the purpose of the  
new platform is to increase the safety and 
user-friendliness of our data breach reporting 
process. 
also, an e-learning course on gdpr and it security 
is mandatory for all new employees as part of our 
onboarding programme. in 2020, all new employ-
ees completed the online training. 
data ethics
as an insurance company, we aspire to work with 
data in a way that helps us build long-term and 
trustful relationships with our customers, suppli-
ers, the authorities, business partners, colleagues 
and other stakeholders. 
the use of data, including personal data, is 
essential for our business model, since data is our 
primary resource in the development of products 
that meet our customers’ needs. using data in a 
responsible and ethical way is key for tryg to be 
able to protect our most important resource and 
to secure our business model. 
our data ethical principles form part of tryg’s 
code of conduct, are based on industry stand-
ards in the form of the danish trade association, 
insurance & pension denmark’s data ethical 
codex, relevant legal requirements as well as 
internationally agreed standards and outline three 
main principles. 
 
transparency
it is vital to tryg that we communicate our use 
of data as well as how we work with data ethics. 
this includes being transparent about when we 
use data to influence our customers’ behaviour to 
avoid or prevent claims. all products involving ad-
vanced data collection as well as new commercial 
products which may have significant implications 
for privacy and the processing of the personal 
data of our customers must be approved by tryg’s 
internal gdpr board to ensure that data ethical 
and privacy dilemmas are observed and properly 
addressed. we do not sell our customers’ personal 
data. 
free choice
in tryg, we care for personalisation and preven-
tion. to offer tailormade solutions that meet 
our customers’ needs and to facilitate a good 
customer experience, we use data. by using data, 
we are able to design the best possible and trans-
parent offers for our customers as well preventing 
claims. we believe that customer-specific data is a 
valuable component when offering tailormade in-
surance products and services based on personal 
behaviour. however, we respect customers’ right 
to privacy and free choice. therefore, we always 
ensure that an alternative insurance product is 
available.
our use of artificial intelligence and new technolo-
gies is founded on respect for our customers. we 
screen all purposes carefully to ensure that our 
use is lawful and respects our customers’ privacy 
rights.
we use automated processing of our customers’ 
personal data (profiling) to calculate and fix prices 
to ensure that our customers are offered insur-
ance products that meet their specific needs, to 
minimise risk as well as fraud and for tailormade 
marketing.  when pricing our products, we limit 
our profiling to particular categories of customer 
data concerned with health and union member-
ship only. no profiling of ethnic origin or sexual or 
political orientation takes place.  
security 
tryg strives to ensure strong data security, as pro-
tecting the privacy of our customers, employees 
and business partners is a fundamental value for 
us. we attach the highest importance to protect-
ing the data of our customers, suppliers, employ-
ees and other stakeholders in our development, 
procurement and use of our it solutions. we 
promote generally accepted information security 
based on current best practices and standards. 
we require our it suppliers to meet security 
standards and comply with all applicable privacy 
legislation. we carry out an audit risk assessment 
of our suppliers prior to their employment. as 
part of their employment contract with tryg, our 
suppliers are required to agree to obligations on 
confidentiality and restrictions in use. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 25
business ethics
tryg’s employees must be well-informed about 
data ethics, data security as well as the proper 
and confidential handling of personal data. all our 
employees must sign a confidentiality undertak-
ing. we create awareness and teach our employ-
ees about privacy through e-learning and training 
programmes, which all employees must attend 
and pass.
we collaborate and share knowledge on data 
security with the industry and authorities as part 
of our membership of the danish trade associa-
tion insurance & pension denmark. to the extent 
possible, tryg will share threat intelligence to 
support a high level of information security in the 
insurance industry and in society. 
we always carefully analyse any data breaches 
and train our employees in privacy, as we want to 
prevent data breaches. 
to support our ongoing work with data ethics and 
ensure that we live up to our principles, all new 
commercial products with significant implications 
for the privacy of our customers must, for exam-
ple, be screened by tryg’s internal gdpr board to 
properly address material data ethical dilemmas.
 download code of conduct 
whistleblower
tryg’s whistleblower hotline is open to all stake-
holders wishing to report the violation or potential 
violation of our code of conduct or other issues 
within the scope of tryg’s whistleblower hotline. 
reports are reviewed by the chairman of the audit 
committee, assisted by tryg’s legal and compli-
ance director. in 2020, two cases were reported 
and investigated compared to three cases in 2019. 
one case led to a warning. 
read more about tryg’s whistleblower hotline
detecting insurance fraud
insurance fraud can have adverse impacts and im-
plications for tryg and for our customers. when in-
surance fraud occurs, claims costs increase, which 
may lead to price increases. as a result, our honest 
customers would end up paying for customers 
who commit fraud. therefore, it is important for 
tryg to prevent and mitigate insurance fraud.
every year, tryg investigates cases of suspected 
insurance fraud through our special investigation 
unit. in 2020, 8,433 notifications compared to 
4,741 notifications in 2019 were passed on to our 
special investigation unit in denmark. 40% were 
classified as insurance fraud compared to 43% in 
2019. 
it is important that we treat our customers with 
respect, which is why processes are in place to 
ensure that all investigations are approved in 
advance and are performed properly and with 
respect for the guidelines defined by our trade 
association insurance & pension denmark. we 
always make sure to inform our customers when 
they have been selected for investigation. all our 
customers are assigned a personal contact, so 
they can easily provide us with the information 
needed to settle their claim. in this way, honest 
customers will receive the compensation they are 
entitled to, while fewer frauds succeed in their 
endeavours. all our customers will experience  
professional and proper case handling.
responsible investments
tryg wants to ensure that our assets are invested 
in a responsible manner. our materiality assess-
ment has identified responsible investment as a 
material issue for tryg, as we are at risk of violating 
international standards when investing. we want 
to be transparent about our efforts to mitigate this 
risk. 
tryg's investment portfolio of dkk 40bn is split 
into two portfolios: a match portfolio and a free 
portfolio. the match portfolio, which comprises 
nordic government and mortgage bonds, totals 
dkk 28bn. the free portfolio, which comprises 
various bonds, funds, investment properties and 
equities, totals dkk 12bn. most of tryg’s invest-
ment assets are managed externally and typically 
held through commingled fund structures. tryg’s 
investment activities are therefore outsourced to 
our external portfolio managers, who are required 
to be un pri signatories.
we believe that responsible investment can have 
the greatest impact when integrating esg con-
siderations into the investment process, through 
being active owners by voting on shareholder 
proposals at annual general meetings, by engaging 
with companies to improve and through screening 
for potential violations of international conven-
tions. thus, we consider divestment and exclusion 
of companies from our investment portfolio as a 
last resort.
ethical screening process 
in 2020, we updated our responsible investment 
policy to reflect our focus on especially environ-
mental and climate-related issues as material for 
our investments. 
our manager selection process focusses on 
choosing external portfolio managers with a sim-
ilar responsible mindset as tryg. additionally, we 
regularly screen our holdings to ensure individual 
holdings live up to our values. the screening is 
carried out using data from an external screen-
ing provider platform. further, we have a formal 
escalation process, which guides the process after 
a screening of investments.
tryg conducts ethical screenings each year based 
on controversial behaviour and controversial 
weapons. controversial behaviour means a 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 26
business ethics
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 27
violation of the ten principles of the un global 
compact. controversial weapons are defined as 
weapons that are more specifically tailormade 
and have an essential level of involvement and/
or significant ownership in companies of the 
former. examples include anti-personnel mines, 
nuclear weapons, cluster weapons, biological and 
chemical weapons, depleted uranium and white 
phosphorus munitions. 
in 2020, the screening led to three companies 
being flagged for controversial behaviour. in line 
with the escalation process, dialogue was initiated 
with the relevant external managers, which yield-
ed satisfactory explanations and actions. thus, no 
companies were excluded.
 download responsible investment policy
 download process for ethical screening
active source management
the vast majority of tryg’s investment assets are 
externally managed and typically held through 
commingled fund structures. tryg’s initiatives 
on active ownership are primarily directed at 
managing and monitoring our external managers’ 
responsible investment processes. the process 
related to ensuring external managers’ compliance 
with tryg’s responsible investment policy is called 
active source management. our primary focus 
is on selecting external managers who share our 
principles and have policies in place to ensure that 
investments are managed responsibly. all selected 
external asset managers are expected to include 
esg considerations in their investment process. 
the relevant esg considerations should be linked 
to material issues for the individual investments 
and will therefore differ across sectors, geog-
raphies, asset classes and investment strategies. 
to provide greater transparency, in 2020, we  
disclose manager statistics (see table below).
 download policy for execution of active ownership 
climate risk and carbon footprint monitoring
to mitigate risk in our investment portfolio, we 
monitor the carbon footprint and climate risk 
associated with our investments using third-party 
data. we currently monitor our equity portfolio 
and parts of our credit bond portfolio and focus 
especially on transition risks and opportunities 
that arise from the shift to a low-carbon economy. 
our equity portfolio is characterised by low expos-
ure to climate transition risks. going forward, we 
will seek to further expand our climate risk 
monitoring and include a larger portion of the 
investment assets in our analyses.
responsible investment statistics
the table below provides information on our 
external managers and active ownership. our 
external managers’ responsibility practices are 
evaluated on whether they are un pri signatories 
and on the quality of their implementation of 
responsibility into their organisation, where we 
use the un pri assessment scores. our active 
ownership statistics describe the percentage of 
shareholder meetings we attended out of the 
meetings that we could attend. furthermore, we 
indicate how our voting aligned with the positions 
of the companies’ boards. 
external manager statistics 
 
percentage of un pri signatories
average manager score for strategy & governance
average manager score for listed equity – incorporation
average manager score for listed equity – active ownership
active ownership statistics
voting percentage for equity portfolio
percentage of for votes (of proposals put to the vote)
percentage of against votes (of proposals put to the vote)
percentage of abstain votes (of proposals put to the vote)
2020 
100%
a+
a+
a+
91.9%
87.3%
10.5%
2.2%
initiatives for 2023
as a part of tryg’s corporate responsibility strat-
egy for 2023, we want to ensure that our assets 
are invested in a responsible manner. hence, we 
have raised our ambitions for our responsible 
investments, which includes prioritising investing 
our assets in companies that are contributing to 
the transition to a low-car bon economy. we have 
set targets to reduce the carbon intensity from our 
equity portfolio by 50% and to divest all our invest-
ments in fossil fuel production companies with no 
strategy for a green transition by 2030.
business ethics
read more about our 
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
responsible investment statistics
responsible supply chain  
management 
tryg is committed to driving positive environmen-
tal and social progress and to creating a positive 
impact in the societies we operate in. in order to 
deliver on our commitment to conducting our 
business in a responsible, ethical and transparent 
manner, we aim to cooperate with suppliers and 
partners that share our values and demonstrate 
their commitment to promoting respect for human 
and labour rights, environmental protection, anti-
corruption and any factors which contribute to the 
overall welfare of society. 
our materiality assessment indicates that there 
is a risk of violations of human and labour rights 
in our supply chain through our outsourcing 
activities. tryg is committed to respecting human 
rights as described in the universal declaration 
of human rights. our commitment is enforced 
through our signatory membership of the un 
global compact and is outlined in our corporate 
responsibility policy as well as in tryg’s code 
of conduct and supplier code of conduct. to 
mitigate any violations, we actively monitor our 
outsourcing suppliers for compliance with the ten 
principles outlined in the un global compact. 
supplier code of conduct
in 2020, we strengthened our commitment by 
updating our code of conduct regarding suppliers 
and partners, implementing a new supplier code 
of conduct and designing a systematic follow-up 
procedure via an external supplier evaluation 
platform provider. 
in our code of conduct, a separate chapter has 
been added on what is expected from tryg’s 
employees when selecting and interacting with 
suppliers and partners. our new supplier code 
of conduct sets out minimum requirements for 
our suppliers and partners to operate in accord-
ance with responsible business principles and 
in full compliance with all applicable legislation 
and regulations. our supplier code of conduct is 
based on internationally recognised agreements 
that promote the management by companies of 
adverse effects on human rights, labour rights, 
environmental protection and anti-corruption 
practices, including the un global compact. 
 download supplier code of conduct
supplier evaluation platform
with the implementation of a new external plat-
form for evaluating the sustainability performance 
of our suppliers in 2020, we initiated an enhanced 
systematic esg risk screening and supplier per-
formance evaluation process. the supplier code 
of conduct roll-out and screening processes were 
tested on a group of selected suppliers in 2020. 
in 2021, we will use the feedback and results we 
receive to enter into dialogue with our suppliers 
on how we can actively strengthen our own and 
our suppliers’ commitment to sustainability. 
in association to our new esg risk screening, we 
are in the process of reviewing our criteria for 
high-risk suppliers. by doing so, we are laying a 
stronger foundation for effectively managing esg 
issues in our supply chain. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 28
initiatives for 2023
as a part of tryg’s corporate responsibility strat-
egy for 2023, we have worked towards designing 
a new approach to sustainable procurement and 
claims handling. our ambition is to contribute 
to sustainable development by entering into 
agreements and collaborations with suppliers 
who share our values and visions for sustainable 
development. we want to ensure that our procure-
ment processes are as responsible as possible by 
defining our supplier expectations and evaluating 
supplier performance, as this creates a basis for 
offering our customers more sustainable claims 
handling.
business ethics
read more about our
corporate responsibility 
strategy for 2023 
on pages 31-34 
in 2020, 
we implemented a 
supplier code of 
conduct and designed 
a systematic follow-up 
procedure
tryg focuses on managing the company in 
accordance with the principles of corporate 
governance and complies with the recommen-
dations prepared by the danish committee on 
corporate governance. the aim is to ensure 
that tryg does its utmost to meet its obligations 
towards its stakeholders and promote long-term 
value creation.
 download corporate governance report
tryg has a two-tier management structure con-
sisting of a supervisory board and an executive 
board. tryg’s executive board consists of the 
group ceo, group cfo, group coo and group 
cco. the executive board is responsible for the 
day-to-day management of tryg and for following 
the guidelines and recommendations issued by 
the supervisory board.
tryg’s supervisory board is responsible for the 
overall management of tryg and is composed of 
12 members from denmark, norway and sweden, 
including four employee representatives. the 
supervisory board is composed of six men and 
six women, and under danish law as well as tryg’s 
own policy, there is equality among the genders. 
members are elected for one year at a time and 
can sit on the supervisory board for a maximum 
of 12 years. the board strives for a well-balanced 
diversity of age, gender and competencies in the 
composition of its members.
 download competency and diversity policy
board committees
tryg has an audit committee, a risk committee, a 
nomination committee, a remuneration commit-
tee and an it-data committee. the framework for 
the committees’ work is defined in their terms of 
reference.
 download terms of reference
remuneration 
tryg has adopted a remuneration policy for tryg in 
general, which contains specific schemes for the 
supervisory board, the executive board and other 
tryg employees whose activities have a material 
impact on the risk profile of the company.
 download remuneration policy 
remuneration of the supervisory board 
members of tryg’s supervisory board receive a 
fixed fee and are not comprised by any form of 
incentive or severance programme or pension 
scheme. their remuneration is based on trends in 
peer companies, taking into account the required 
skills, efforts and the scope of the supervisory 
board’s work, including the number of meetings 
held. the remuneration received by the chair-
man of the supervisory board is three times that 
received by ordinary members, while the deputy 
chairman’s remuneration is twice that received by 
ordinary members of the supervisory board. 
remuneration of the executive board 
members of the executive board are employed on 
a contractual basis, and all terms of their remu-
neration are established by the supervisory board 
within the scope of the approved remuneration 
policy. tryg wants to maintain an appropriate 
balance between management remuneration, 
predictable risk and value creation for the compa-
ny’s shareholders in the short and long term. the 
executive board’s remuneration consists of a basic 
salary and a pension contribution of 25% of the 
basic salary and other benefits. the basic salary 
must be competitive and appropriate for the mar-
corporate governance
ket and provide sufficient motivation for members 
of the executive board to achieve tryg’s targets. 
for the performance year 2020, the variable pay 
element was allotted as conditional shares. the 
cap for the incentive programme was 32% of 
the fixed salary including pension. the targets 
for 2020 were based on tryg’s technical result, 
transactional net promoter score, employee 
satisfaction levels, the incorporation of alka and 
the implementation of the strategy. the allotted 
conditional shares are deferred for four years from 
the time of allotment. after the end of the deferral 
period, the participant will receive free shares in 
tryg a/s corresponding to the numbers of condi-
tional shares allotted.
dkk
jukka pertola
torben nielsena)
lene skole
mari thjømøe
carl-viggo Östlund
ida sofie jensen
tina snejbjergb)
lone hansenc)
tom eilingc)
elias bakke)
karen bladt
claus wistoft
gert ove mikkelsend)
charlotte dietzerd)
fee
 
1,170,000
780,000
390,000
390,000
390,000
390,000
390,000
97,500
97,500
390,000
390,000
390,000
292,500
292,500
audit 
committee
240,000
160,000
160,000
risk
committee
240,000
160,000
160,000
160,000
it-data  
committee
140,000
210,000
140,000
35,000
105,000
nomination 
committee
150,000
100,000
100,000
total
1,625,000
1,442,500
710,000
845,610
850,580
740,000
632,500
132,500
148,875
593,010
390,000
390,000
348,368
292,500
a) joined the remuneration comitee as additional member in march 2020. in 2020, torben nielsen furthermore received a fee as chair of the board of the subsidiaries tryg invest a/s (dkk 125,000) and kapitalforeningen tryg invest 
funds (dkk 200,000) b) joined as a member of the remuneration committee in march 2020 c) resigned from the supervisory board in march 2020 d) joined the supervisory board in march 2020 e) joined as a member of the it-da-
ta committee in march 2020 f) employer contributions to social security relating to board members from sweden and norway
remuneration  
committee
165,000
82,500
110,000
110,000
82,500
27,500
total remuneration of the supervisory board in 2020
total remuneration of the executive board in 2020
dkk
morten hübbe 
lars bonde
johan kirstein brammer
barbara plucnar jensen
basic
salary 
 11,783,200 
 5,600,458 
 5,692,500 
 5,200,000 
pension 
 
 2,945,800 
 1,400,115 
 1,423,125 
 1,300,000 
car
allowance 
 
 255,000 
 255,000 
 255,000 
 255,000 
other
benefits 
 
  27,000 
 27,000 
 27,000 
 27,000 
total fixed
salary 
 
  15,011,000 
 7,282,573 
 7,397,625 
 6,782,000 
conditional 
sharese
 4,603,373 
 2,233,322 
 2,367,240 
 2,079,813 
total fee 
  20,814,373 
 10,715,895 
 10,964,865 
 10,061,813 
e) the value of conditional shares at the time of allotment in january 2021 for the 2020 performance year f) one-off award for work on the rsa 
transaction in 2020. awarded in the form of conditional shares deferred for 4 years 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 29
social contribution 
(norway/ sweden)f)
135,610
140,580
23,875
98,010
55,868
special 
allowancef
1,200,000
1,200,000
1,200,000
1,200,000
annual general meeting 
tryg holds an annual general meeting every year. 
all shareholders are encouraged to attend the 
annual general meeting, where they can ask 
questions of the supervisory board and the group 
ceo. the annual general meeting is normally 
held by personal attendance at tryg’s head office 
in ballerup, denmark, as the supervisory board 
values personal contact with the shareholders.
in 2020, the general meeting differed from prior 
years due to covid-19. in light of tryg’s respon-
sibility for the safety of shareholders, employees 
and management and the danish authorities’ 
measures to control the spread of covid-19, tryg 
decided to livestream the general meeting and rec-
ommended that shareholders did not attend the 
annual general meeting in person. tryg encour-
aged all shareholders to submit questions, make 
use of written votes or to issue a proxy. 
on 18 december 2020, tryg held an extraordin-
ary general meeting, at which it was proposed 
to authorise the supervisory board to increase 
the share capital, to adopt a new article 8a in the 
articles of association and to amend article 10 of 
the articles of association accordingly.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 30
tryg share and dividend 
tryg’s share capital comprises a single share class, 
and all shares rank pari passu. the majority share-
holder, tryghedsgruppen smba, owns 53% of the 
shares and is the only shareholder owning more 
than 5% of the company’s shares. 
tryg’s dividend policy aspires to distribute a steadily 
increasing dividend in nominal terms on a full-year 
basis based on the annual distribution of 60-90% of 
our profit after tax. depending on the development 
in results, each year the supervisory board pro-
poses the distri bution of quarterly dividends, and 
possibly an extraordinary annual dividend if further 
adjustment of the capital structure is required. 
after the significant negative impact of covid-19 in 
q1 2020, tryg announced an annual dividend deci-
sion instead of quarterly dividend payment. howev-
er, despite challenging times, tryg’s business model 
proved very resilient, and it was therefore decided 
to pay out a dividend of dkk 5.25 per share for 
the first three quarters of 2020. tryg will pay a q4 
dividend per share of dkk 1.75. a total dividend of 
dkk 7.00 per share will be paid out for 2020 (dkk 
6.80 in 2019), equivalent to a full-year dividend of 
dkk 2,111m, or 76% of the profit for the year.
 
 download dividend policy
tryghedsgruppen
in 2020, tryg’s majority shareholder, trygheds-
gruppen, paid out a member bonus to tryg’s 
customers in denmark corresponding to 8% of 
the annual premiums paid for 2019.
trygfonden
trygfonden is the leading and most well-known 
peace-of-mind foundation in denmark, sup-
porting hundreds of activities that contribute to 
this, such as coastal lifeguards, cuddle bears for 
children in hospitals and defibrillators. behind 
trygfonden is tryghedsgruppen. in 2020, tryg’s 
majority shareholder and trygfonden contrib-
uted approximately dkk 650m to projects that 
create peace of mind in denmark.
corporate governance
tryg will pay out 
a total dividend 
of dkk 7.00 
per share 
for 2020
corporate responsibility strategy 2023:  
driving sustainable impact
  atryg means feeling protected and cared for. btargets are based on a 2020 baseline. ctargets are based on a 2019 baseline.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 31
responsible companyb
responsible procurement 
50-70% of contract suppliers to be screened for 
sustainability compliance and performance in 2023
40% of our screened suppliers to achieve a high  
performance rating in 2023
responsible investment
100% external asset managers are un pri signatories in 2023 
50% co2 intensity reduction from equity portfolio in 2030
exclusion of fossil fuel production companies with no  
strategy for a green transition in 2030  
 
diverse workplace
41% women in management positions in 2023
as one of the largest non-life insurance companies 
in the nordic region, tryg wants to live up to our 
purpose: as the world changes, we make it easier 
to be tryga . we want to contribute to a sustainable 
future and create long-term value for our custom-
ers, employees and shareholders and for society. 
to achieve this, we have formulated our corporate 
responsibility strategy for 2023: driving sustaina-
ble impact. 
the strategy is based on an extensive material-
ity assessment to ensure that we focus on the 
sustainability issues that are most material for tryg 
and for our stakeholders.
the strategy is focused on how tryg as a company 
and our employees can contribute a more  
sustainable society, and how we can influence 
our suppliers and help our customers make more 
sustainable choices. furthermore, the strategy 
is characterised by a strategic, commercial and 
holistic approach, the purpose of which is to inte-
grate corporate responsibility and sustainability 
into every corner of tryg. hence, the strategy has 
three focus areas, forming the basis of the strategic 
pillars: responsible company, green workplace 
and sustainable insurance. for each strategic pillar, 
we have set targets for both 2023 and 2030, as 
we want to contribute to actual and measurable 
impact as well as monitor progress – also in the 
shorter term.
targets
green workplacec
2023: carbon-neutral and 30% co2 reduction 
50% co2 reduction from energy consumption and  
green energy from 2021
10% co2 reduction from waste production
20% co2 reduction from air travel
20% co2 reduction from car fleet
 2030: 50% co2 reduction 
sustainable insuranceb
sustainable products, services and claims handling 
20% increase in sustainable claims spend in 2023 
10,000-15,000 tonnes co2 reduction from  
climate-friendly claims handling in 2023
 
by prioritising our most sustainable suppliers, we 
aim to motivate more of our suppliers to increase 
their engagement within sustainability. in this way 
we can, in collaboration with our suppliers, offer 
our customers access to more sustainable claims 
handling. 
responsible investment
tryg wants to ensure that its assets are invested 
in a responsible manner, and that investments are 
conducted in accordance with our values.
tryg engages in active source management, which 
means that we enter into dialogue with the com-
panies that we invest in and cast votes at annual 
general meetings with the intention of creating 
positive change and pushing for sustainable 
development. this is carried out by our external 
managers who we expect to have the same high 
ethical standards as tryg. 
for this strategy period, we have raised our 
ambitions for tryg’s responsible investments. all 
our external managers must be un pri signatories 
and are being evaluated on the quality of their 
implementation of responsibility into their organ-
isation. we apply un pri assessment scores and 
aim for an average minimum score for our external 
managers of b or higher, which corresponds to a 
score in the upper half of the scoring scale. also, 
we seek to ensure that external managers apply 
active ownership to individual holdings and have 
set a target that at least 90% of potential annual 
general meeting votes are attended.
as a part of the strategy, we will prioritise investing 
our assets in companies that are contributing to  
the transition to a low-carbon economy. the car-
bon intensitya from our equity portfolio is already 
lower than the general equity market. yet, our 
target is to reduce the carbon intensity of our  
equity portfolio further, by at least 50% in 2030 
compared to 2020.
also, we want to contribute to the green transition 
by aiming to divest all our investments in fossil fuel 
diverse workplace
being a diverse and inclusive workplace is essen-
tial for tryg and for our success as a company. we 
want to reflect the society that we are part of, and 
we need a diverse pool of employees and leaders 
from different backgrounds and with different 
skills and experience to match the changing needs 
of our customers and society. we believe that an 
inclusive culture and a diverse representation of 
employees and, more importantly, diversity of 
thought are key elements to attracting new talent, 
but also to motivating and retaining our existing 
employees.
for several years, tryg has had a strong focus on 
diversity and has been aiming to increase the 
number of women in management positions. we 
will maintain this focus by renewing our target of 
41% women in management positions in 2023. 
furthermore, it is our ambition to increase diver-
sity of thought in our management teams by hiring 
candidates of different ages and genders as well as 
with different industry experience to contribute to 
tryg’s continued development and success. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 32
corporate responsibility strategy 2023: driving sustainable impact
responsible company
the foundation for driving a responsible and 
sustainable company is based on high ethical 
standards and compliance with all applicable 
national and international legislation. this is tryg’s 
licence to operate, and it is expected of us, both 
as a danish c25 company and as a member of 
the un global compact, that we comply with 
the ten principles of the un global compact. 
business ethics and compliance are underlying, 
but fundamental elements to everything we do as 
a company, in our daily lives as employees and in 
our corporate responsibility strategy.
responsible procurement
tryg’s procurement decisions have environmental, 
social and economic impacts. our ambition is 
to be a responsible purchaser and live up to the 
highest standards of responsible procurement. we 
continuously strive to contribute to sustainable 
development by entering into agreements and col-
laborations with suppliers who share our values 
and visions for sustainable development. 
we seek to incorporate sustainability in every 
step of our procurement processes. we train our 
buyers and proactively enter into a dialogue with 
our suppliers on how to improve their sustainability 
performance. 
in 2020, we designed a transparent and systematic 
screening and follow-up procedure in collabora-
tion with an external supplier evaluation platform 
provider. the platform will enable us to evaluate our 
suppliers in terms of the minimum requirements 
described in our supplier code of conduct and to 
conduct esg risk screenings of our suppliers. fur-
thermore, the platform will be used to collaborate 
closely with our suppliers to drive positive impacts 
and increase our suppliers’ sustainability perfor-
mance. our target for 2023 is to screen 50-70% of 
our contract suppliers for sustainability compliance 
and performance, esg risks and performance, and 
for 40% of our screened suppliers to have achieved 
a high performance rating. 
exclusion of fossil 
fuel production 
companies with no
strategy for a green 
transition in 2030
50% 
co2 intensity 
reduction from equity 
portfolio in 2030
tryg’s commitment to increasing the number of women in management positions contributes to 
sdg 5, gender equality, specifically indicator 5.5.2
tryg’s commitment to incorporating sustainability in procurement processes contributes to sdg 12, 
responsible consumption and production, specifically targets 12.2, 12.5 and 12.6
production companies with no strategy for a green 
transition before 2030 to support our long-term 
ambition of having a low-carbon and fossil-free 
investment portfolio. we will begin phasing out 
these investments no later than 2023. to contrib-
ute to the green transition, we seek to introduce 
green bond investments before 2023 and aim 
to invest dkk 5bn in green bonds by 2030. also, 
we will continue our green impact investment 
programme, which supports the development of 
renewable energy sources in east africa.
tryg’s commitment to incorporating sustainability in procurement processes contributes to sdg 13, 
climate action, specifically targets 13.1 and 13.3.
tryg’s commitment to reducing the carbon footprint of the equity portfolio and divesting investments 
in fossil fuel production companies with no strategy for a green transition contributes to sdg 13, 
climate action, specifically targets 13.1 and 13.3.
  a carbon intensity is measured as tonnes of co2 per usdm of revenue and includes scope 1 & 2 emissions.
green workplace
climate change is one of the most critical chal-
lenges of our time and requires immediate action 
from all actors in society. as an insurance company, 
tryg’s direct carbon footprint is limited. yet, as a 
responsible company we need to minimise our own 
carbon footprint. we support the danish govern-
ment’s ambition of reducing carbon emissions by 
70% in 2030 compared to 1990. our ambition to 
be a green workplace calls for a change in both 
mindset, actions and habits.
our target is to achieve carbon neutrality in 2023 
in relation to our carbon emissions deriving from 
scope 1 and scope 2 and from our waste, air and 
train travel in scope 3. we want to reduce our 
carbon footprint by 30% in 2023 and 50% in 2030 
compared to 2019 and will compensate for the 
rest of our carbon emissions. however, our goal is 
to compensate less and reduce more over time. 
we seek to reduce the carbon footprint associated 
with our offices as well as our transport including 
car, taxi, train and air travel. we want to make our 
offices more energy-efficient by purchasing renew-
able energy from 2021 and reducing the carbon 
emissions deriving from our energy consumption 
by 50% and the emissions deriving from our waste 
production by 10% in 2023 compared to 2019. 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 33
carbon 
neutrality 
in 2023
corporate responsibility strategy 2023: driving sustainable impact
50% 
co2 reduction 
in 2030
30% 
co2 reduction 
in 2023
since transport accounts for a large share of our 
carbon footprint, we wish to change our transport 
habits. thus, our target is to reduce our carbon 
emissions deriving from air travel by 20 % and the 
emissions deriving from our car fleet by 20 % in 
2023, compared to 2019. 
tryg’s employees play an important role in 
meeting our reduction targets, which is why it is 
essential to inform and motivate our employees 
to change their mindset and habits. 
tryg’s commitment to reducing waste production contributes to sdg 12, responsible consumption 
and production, specifically indicators 12.2.1 and 12.5.1.
trygs commitment to reducing its own carbons emissions contributes to sdg 13, climate action, 
specifically targets 13.1 and 13.3.
sustainable insurance
tryg wants to support and motivate its customers 
on their own sustainability journey by offering 
sustainable products and services as well as 
incorporating sustainability in our claims handling 
process. by offering products and services with 
claims prevention measures, we may prevent 
claims from happening in the first place or minim-
ise the damage. when a claim occurs, we want to 
ensure that the claims handling is conducted in a 
sustainable manner. by doing so, we can encour-
age new consumption patterns that break with the 
current throw-away culture, which is eating into 
our scarce natural resources. 
sustainable claims handling 
one of our biggest impacts as an insurance 
company is associated with our claims handling 
processes. each year, we handle approximately 
one million claims. making our claims handling 
processes more sustainable is an inevitable step 
on tryg’s sustainability journey and an important 
part of tryg’s contribution to a more sustainable 
society.
in 2020, we worked towards confirming our 
opportunities for making an impact through more 
sustainable claims handling methods as well 
as designing a strategy that is measurable and 
anchored across our organisation. our long-term 
goal is to be amongst the leading nordic insur-
ance companies in the quest for more sustainable 
claims handling, and our target is to increase our 
sustainable claims spend by minimum 20% in 
2023 compared to 2020.
currently, no applicable official standard for 
sustainable claims handling exists in the insurance 
industry. however, in the face of the increasing 
resource scarcity and the climate crisis, we believe 
it is vital to start accelerating our efforts now.
by encouraging our employees, our suppliers and 
our business partners to take a leading role explor-
ing how we can become even better at sustainable 
claims handling, we will drive positive environ-
mental and social progress. as a result, we will 
anchor sustainability at the heart of all our claims 
handling decisions and change action patterns.
we recognise the need for a definition to work 
with. therefore, we have started developing a 
framework for identifying and assessing more 
sustainable claims handling methods. we will 
continue our work by seeking collaboration with 
industry initiatives and other leading insurance 
companies to establish an official  standard for 
sustainable claims handling.
several of our claims handling methods are 
already climate-friendly. however, part of our 
strategy is to implement more sustainable claims 
handling methods. our goal is to increase the 
number of claims that are handled using these 
methods and to expand the approach to cover 
more claims types. in order to report on the 
impact of our climate-friendly claims handling 
methods, we have worked towards establishing 
a calculation method. in 2020, we calculated the 
total effect of three different claims handling types 
within motor insurance for 2019. by repairing car 
screens instead of replacing them, performing 
phone fixes instead of providing traditional 
on-the-spot roadside assistance and reusing car 
spare parts instead of replacing with new parts, 
we achieved a total annual reduction of 7,847  
tonnes of co2 in 2019. the results confirm that 
we have a huge responsibility and great opportuni-
ties for reducing carbon emissions by using more 
sustainable claims handling methods. we will 
report on more initiatives on a yearly basis and 
continuously strive to find ways of further redu-
cing our carbon emissions, both by collaborating 
with our suppliers and through improving our own 
claims handling processes. from 2021, we will 
report on the aggregated co2 reduction effect of 
our climate-friendly claims handling methods. by 
2023, our target is to reach a total co2 reduction 
effect from climate-friendly claims handling of 
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 34
10,000-15,000 tonnes of co2, corresponding to 
approximately the total annual carbon footprint of 
580-880 danes.
sustainable products and services
tryg wants to promote sustainable behaviour by 
offering our customers products and services that 
include various elements of sustainability. claims 
handling processes are often associated with the 
use of considerable resources and energy as well 
as carbon being emitted into the atmosphere. 
thus, we seek to be an active peace-of-mind 
creator by preventing claims from happening 
in the first place, thus avoiding both concern 
and inconvenience for our customers – but also 
avoiding harming the climate and the environment 
– by increasing our focus on claims prevention 
measures in our products and services. tryg’s 
ambition is that claims prevention products and 
services make up a fourth of tryg's new products 
and services.
also, we want to offer our customers products and 
services that support their sustainability journey 
and contribute to society both environmentally 
and socially. our ambition is to offer a wide range 
of products and services that include social and 
environmental sustainability measures in different 
ways and to different degrees, meeting the needs 
of both those of our customers who are just 
embarking on their sustainability journey and 
customers for whom sustainability is their number 
one priority.
corporate responsibility strategy 2023: driving sustainable impact
20% increase 
in sustainable 
claims spend 
in 2023
10,000-15,000 
tonnes co2 reduction 
from climate-friendly 
claims handling 
in 2023
tryg’s commitment to incorporating sustainability into claims handling processes as well as products 
and services, including claims prevention, contributes to sdg 12, responsible consumption and 
production, specifically indicators 12.2.1 and 12.5.1 as well as target 12.6.
tryg’s commitment to incorporating sustainability into claims handling processes as well as products 
and services, including claims prevention, contributes to sdg 13, climate action, specifically indicator 
13.1.1 and target 13.3.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 35
environmental, social and governance (esg) data
scope 1 (direct emissions)
car travel
stationary combustion
                     heating oil
                     natural gas
total scope 1 carbon emissions  
scope 2 (indirect emissions)
electricity consumption, total
district heating, total
total energy
total scope 2 carbon emissions 
scope 3 (indirect emissions)
air and train travel, total
bio waste
total waste 
total scope 3 carbon emissions 
total direct and indirect carbon emissions
total direct and indirect carbon emissions per employee 
tonnes co2e
litres
kwh
tonnes co2e
kwh
kwh
gj
tonnes co2e
tonnes co2e
kg
kg
tonnes co2e
tonnes co2e
tonnes co2e
unit 
2020 
2019 
2018
comment
all figures related to stationary combustion, electricity consumption, district heating, energy and waste for 2019 
and 2020 include 13 of tryg’s locations (with 50+ employees), corresponding to 95% of our employees.
the calculation method of scope 1, 2 and 3 is based on the greenhouse gas protocol initiative (ghg protocol) and is 
developed by the world resources institute (wri) and world business council for sustainable development (wbcsd). 
this analysis is according to a corporate accounting and reporting standard revised edition, currently one of four ghg 
protocol accounting standards explaining how to calculate and report ghg emissions. the reporting considers the fol-
lowing greenhouse gases, all converted into co2 equivalents: co2, ch4 (methane), n2o (laughing gas), sf6, hfcs and 
pfcs. this methodology is based on the operational control aspect that defines what should be included in the carbon 
inventory, as well as in the different scopes.
climate and environmental data 
includes company travel in tryg’s leased cars in denmark. carbon emissions for 2019 and 2020 are based on data obtained from leasing 
supplier, which reports on carbon emissions. carbon emissions are calculated based on fuel consumption. thus, the decrease from 
2018 to 2019 is mainly due to a new and more accurate carbon emissions calculation method for 2019 and 2020.
the decrease in 2020 is mainly caused by covid-19 and the move of several offices in norway to more energy-efficient premises with 
fewer square metres. also, at our norwegian head office in bergen, the ventilation system was renovated to a higher energy-efficiency 
standard during h1 and was only in limited use during this period. from h2, the same office has been connected to a more energy-effi-
cient district heating and cooling plant.
the decrease in 2020 is mainly caused by covid-19.
for the 2020 reporting, we have included 13 of our locations (with 50+ employees) compared to previous five locations. the 2019 
figures have been restated accordingly – to include 13 locations and data per employee – in order to be able to compare and evaluate 
progress from 2019 to 2020.
total carbon emissions per fte (covers approximately 95% of our employees).
852
0
318,400
915
6,657,700
4,780,700
54,574
1,041
474
43,907
226,027
545
2,501
0.54
880
7,844
472,300 
994
10,401,400
5,779,300
72,918
1,562
2,443
64,348
410,786
2,571
5,127
1.17
1,594
4,338
393,800 
1,677
7,216,162
3,062,285
62,713
1,002
2,545
38,712
357,246
2,707
5,386
-
the decrease in 2020 is mainly caused by covid-19.
the decrease in 2020 is mainly caused by covid-19.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 36
total number of employees (ftes)
total gender distribution (female/male)
total share of women in management positions
employees, <30 years
employees, 30-49 years
employees, >50 years
flexi job 
employee turnover
total leavers
share of voluntary leavers
share of involuntary leavers
gender pay ratio 
sick leave
total employee training hours
average employee training hours
employee satisfaction
customer retention rate 
 
private denmark
 
commercial denmark
 
private norway
 
commercial norway
transactional net promoter score (tnps)
collective bargaining agreements 
number
%
%
%
%
%
number
%
number
%
%
times
%
hours
hours
index point
%
%
%
%
score
unit 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016
4,151
46/54
35
16
53
31
20
12
529 
7.4
4.6
1.21 
3.19
86,476
20
78
91.6
88.6
86.9
89.0
68
4,027 
46/54
33 
15
53
32
15
12.7
431
10.8
1.9
1.2
4.09
71,478
19
78
91.2
88.0
86.7
87.7
67 
3,373
47/53
 37 
 16 
 52 
 32 
9
14.6
512
9.5
5.1
1.27
4.09
 69,960 
20
76
90.2
87.7
85.8
86.9
-
3,264
48/52
 36 
 14 
 54 
 32 
11
17
601
9.1
7.9
1.25
4.11
 90,945 
26
74
89.7
87.1
86.4
87.5
-
4,400
46/54
38
17
53
30
23
 
 
 
9.8
482
5.5
4.3
1.14
3.07
70,781
16
80
90.1
88.6
88.4
89.2
72
comment
gender equality of remuneration is calculated based on male 
salary divided by female salary.
due to covid-19, most courses with physical attendance were 
postponed.
based on an annual employee satisfaction survey.
see page 19.
social data
environmental, social and governance (esg) data
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 37
size of the supervisory board incl. employee representatives
independent board members 
supervisory board meetings
attendance rate, supervisory board meetings
members of the audit committee
audit committee meetings 
attendance rate, audit committee meetings 
members of the risk committee
risk committee meetings
attendance rate, risk committee meetings
members of the remuneration committee
remuneration committee meetings
attendance rate, remuneration committee meetings
members of the nomination committee
nomination committee meetings 
attendance rate, nomination committee meetings
members of it-data committee
it-data committee meetings
attendance rate, it-data committee meetings
share of women on the supervisory board incl. employee representatives  
board members, <30 years 
board members, 30-49 years 
board members, >50 years
ceo pay ratio
whistleblower cases 
remuneration of the supervisory board and the executive board 
number 
number
number 
%
number 
number 
%
number 
number 
%
number 
number 
%
number 
number 
%
number 
number 
%
%
number 
number 
number 
 
times
number
12
 5
8
100
3
6
100
4
6
 100 
 
4 
 6
100
3
3
100
 
4
3
100
50
0
1
11
25.63
3
13
5
9
98
4
6
92
5
6
88
 
5 
 6 
97
3
2
100
4
3
92
38.46
0
1
12
26.26
7
13
6
15
97
4
6
92
5
6
 88 
 
5 
 4 
100
3
2
100
4
2
100
38.46
0
1
12
22.07
7
12
5
15
98
4
6
100
5
6
 100 
 
4 
 5 
100
2
2
100
 
3 
4
100
41.67
0
0
12
20.83
4
unit 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016
comment
tryg has equal gender representation on the supervisory 
board under danish law and according to tryg's policy.
calculated from ceo remuneration divided by employee 
salary. the increase in 2020 is primarily due to the lower nok/
dkk exchange rate and the one-off remuneration received 
by members of the executive board for their work on the rsa 
transaction.
see table on page 29.
governance data 
12
5 
22
99.6
3
7
100
4
15
 100
 
5
 11
95
3
8
100
 
4
4
100
50
0
3
9
 27.94
2
environmental, social and governance (esg) data
legal requirements
section 132a
status and target for the supervisory board on increasing the share of 
the underrepresented gender:  
section 132a, subs. 1
policy, target, action plan and result on increasing the share of the 
underrepresented gender at other management levels: 
section 132a, subs. 2 and 4
readers' guide
according to danish law as well as tryg’s own policy there is equality among genders 
on the supervisory board, and tryg is therefore not required to set targets. a descrip-
tion is available on pages 21-22.  
policy, target, action plan and result on increasing the share of the underrepresented 
gender at other management levels are available on page 5 and pages 21-22.
section 132b
corporate responsibility policy: section 132b, subs. 2, (2)
business model: section 132b, subs. 2, (1)
key risks: section 132b, subs. 2, (4)
policies section: 132b, subs. 2, (2)
systems and due diligence processes: section 132 b, subs. 2, (3)
actions: section 132b, subs. 2, (3)
results: section 132b, subs. 2, (6)
kpis: section 132b, subs. 2, (5)
readers' guide
tryg’s corporate responsibility policy is referred on page 5.  
tryg’s business model is described on page 10.
a description of key risks has been integrated into the relevant chapters.  
see pages 15-30.
a description of policies has been integrated into the relevant chapters.  
see overview section on page 5 and pages 15-30.  
see systems and due diligence processes in overview section on page 5.
a description of key actions has been integrated into the relevant chapters. 
see pages 15-30.
see results in overview section on page 5 or in the relevant chapters. see pages 15-30.
see targets in overview section on page 5 or in the relevant chapters. see pages 15-30 
and page 31.
tryg reports with reference to the fulfilment of targets for the share of the underrepresented gender at management levels and non-financial 
reporting in accordance with the provisions of sections 132 and 132a of the danish executive order on financial reports for insurance companies 
and lateral pension funds (nationwide occupational pension funds).
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 38
the un global compact and the un 
sustainable development goals
the un global compact 
tryg has been a member of the un global compact since 2008. the un global compact is 
based on ten principles for responsible business conduct. this means operating in ways that, as 
a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment 
and anti-corruption. 
the ten principles of the un global compact are: 
anti-corruption
principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including  
 
 extortion and bribery.
human rights
principle 1:  businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 
 
proclaimed human rights; and
principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 
labour
principle 3:  businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 
 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
principle 4:  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
principle 5:  the effective abolition of child labour; and
principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 
environment
principle 7:  businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 
 
challenges;
principle 8:  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
principle 9:  encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 
 
technologies. 
the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) 
in september 2015, all 193 member states of the united nations adopted a plan for achieving  
a better future for all – laying out a path over the next 15 years to end extreme poverty, fight  
inequality and injustice and protect our planet. the 17 un sustainable development goals 
(sdgs) are based on an ambitious plan formed on 17 specific targets that commit all un  
member states to working for a sustainable development and better world in 2030. 
see which sdgs tryg has targets for on page 31.
linking the un global compact and sdgs
the ten principles of the un global compact provide a common ethical and practical frame-
work for operationalising corporate responsibility. derived from un declarations and conven-
tions, these universal principles represent the fundamental values.
the 17 sdgs have a different vision and relevance for businesses. at the heart of the 2030 
agenda, the sdgs demonstrate long-term targets for businesses and other stakeholders to work 
towards creating the world we want.
together, the ten principles and the sdgs equip businesses with both the values and the vision 
to help the private sector make the biggest contribution to people and planet.
global challenges – ranging from climate, water and food crises, to poverty, conflict and inequal-
ity – are in need of solutions that the private sector can deliver, representing a large and growing 
market for business innovation. in the rush to transform business models and systems for the 
future, integrity and values will have a huge role to play. innovation in one area cannot make up 
for doing harm in another.
corporate responsibility report 2020 | tryg a/s | 39
