the vestas 
sustainability
report 2020
contents
about this report
what is the purpose of this report?
at vestas, we are working to make our company – 
and the world – a more sustainable place. in this 
report, we communicate the progress we made in 
2020. we also explain how we worked to embed 
the 10 principles of the united nations global 
compact into our strategies and operations dur-
ing the year.
how do we support the un sustainable 
development goals (sdgs)?
on pages 46-47, we report on our contribution to 
six of the 17 un sdgs in 2020.
is this the vestas communication  
on progress 2020?
the sustainability report constitutes vestas’ 
communication on progress (cop). in accordance 
with  our signatory status to the un global com-
pact, we apply the option stipulated in section 
99a of the danish financial statements act, con-
cerning the statutory duty of large enterprises to 
report non-financial information, by referring to 
our cop. in this report, we also disclose in accord-
ance with section 99b and 107d on gender and 
diversity (pages 26-28).
eu taxonomy
read more about our preliminary assessment of 
vestas wind systems a/s’ alignment with the 
regulation (eu) 2019/2088, also known as the 
eu taxonomy, on page 48.
tcfd reporting
read more about our approach to implement-
ing the disclosure recommendations of the task 
force on climate-related financial disclosures 
(tcfd) on page 33.
external links
when you see this icon in the margin, it indicates 
a link to an external source in the text. the link 
will be aligned with the icon and indicated by  
blue text.
03 
introduction 
04 
 a statement from the vestas executive management 
team
06 
our business model
07 
our history: then and now
08 
the vestas sustainability strategy
09 
our approach to sustainability
09 
sustainability in everything we do
12 
carbon neutral by 2030 – without using carbon offsets 
13 
zero-waste wind turbines by 2040
14 
 safest, most inclusive and most socially responsible 
company in the energy industry
16 
 leading the transition to a world powered by  
sustainable energy
18 
measuring our progress
20 
reporting on our progress and approaches in 2020
21 
key achievements 
22 
our employees
30 
our responsibilities
32 
environmental sustainability 
40 
community engagement 
42 
governing sustainability
44 
tax and sustainability
46 
reporting on the un sdgs 
48 
eu taxonomy
49 
sustainability key figures
50 
notes to sustainability key figures
introduction
co₂e avoided
2020
1981-2020
186 million
 tonnes co₂e avoided
equivalent to co₂e emissions from
31 million
homes‘ electricity use for one year
equivalent to co₂e emissions from
252 million
homes‘ electricity use for one year
equivalent to greenhouse  
gas emissions avoided by
125 million
passenger vehicles driven for one year
equivalent to greenhouse  
gas emissions avoided by
1,007 million
passenger vehicles driven for one year
equivalent to co₂e emissions from
23 trillion
smartphones charged
equivalent to co₂e emissions from
190 trillion
smartphones charged
equivalent to greenhouse  
gas emissions avoided by
63 million
tonnes of waste recycled
equivalent to greenhouse  
gas emissions avoided by
507 million
tonnes of waste recycled
equivalent to carbon sequestered by
0.9 million
km² of forest in one year
equivalent to carbon sequestered by
7.8 million
km² of forest in one year
numbers have been rounded down. please refer to pages 50-51 for details on the calculations. sources: for passenger vehicles: eea ; for all other indicators: epa 
.
1,492 million
tonnes co₂e avoided
02   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
03   the vestas sustainability report 2020
a statement from the vestas executive management team
dear reader,
2020 has brought unprecedented disruption. as the pandemic main-
tains its grip on modern life, the climate crisis poses a more insidious 
challenge, waiting for us just beyond the horizon. 
this year, however, has also been one of silver linings; not least because  
our more than 10,000 dedicated service employees ensured a bal-
anced and stable supply of energy during the global health crisis, prov-
ing that renewable energy is now a critical component of our global 
energy systems. covid-19 has taught us that universal challenges 
can inspire change. we now have an opportunity to build back better; to 
harness what we have learned to nurture resilience and pave the way 
towards a more sustainable future. 
the energy industry is also being reimagined. governments around the 
world are daring to be ambitious with their decarbonisation goals, and 
with this commitment renewable energy will grow to occupy an even 
stronger position within the global energy system. as a global leader in 
renewables, with an installed fleet avoiding 186 million tonnes of co₂e 
annually, vestas is determined to ensure that the sector safeguards the 
interests of future generations as it expands. 
we began the year by launching our new 
sustainability strategy, entitled sustain-
ability in everything we do. it is a strategy 
designed to ensure that our sustainability 
performance increases as we scale, and that 
our approach to sustainability continues to 
reflect the landscape in which we operate. 
this work is crucial, not least because 
the renewables sector has some way to 
go. in order to ensure the future of our planet is built on sustainable 
foundations, we must look beyond the value created by our products. 
this requires us, as an industry, to think outside our own value chains. 
increasing our sustainability performance here is of course a posi-
tive first step, but a truly sustainable future requires collaboration; it 
requires us to share our expertise and prioritise the social as well as the 
environmental impacts of our actions. 
at vestas, one way we exemplify this commitment is through our human 
rights due diligence framework, where we apply a cross-stakeholder 
approach to securing and maintaining the support of local communities. 
furthermore, our journey towards greening our supply chain will ben-
members of the executive management from left: anders nielsen (evp, vestas power solutions), juan araluce (evp, sales), kerstin knapp (evp, people & culture), henrik 
andersen (president and ceo), marika fredriksson (evp, finance), tommy rahbek nielsen (evp, coo), and christian venderby (evp, service).
 “ as a global leader in 
renewables, vestas 
is determined to 
ensure that the 
sector safeguards 
the interests of future 
generations as it 
expands.”
the executive management team of vestas wind systems a/s 
efit from the support of industry partnerships, such as those with dsv 
panalpina and hempel. it is only through thinking beyond our own eco-
system that we as an industry can support global climate ambitions and 
establish sustainable societies. in this respect, we remain committed to the 
ten principles of the un global compact as shown by our signature to the 
2020 statement from business leaders for renewed global cooperation. 
we are convinced that through increased collaboration, we can accelerate 
our progress towards building a more sustainable future for all.
urgency is central to the sustainability debate. as a global community, 
we must be aware of the ticking clock, and the overwhelming burden 
that economic development places on our natural resources. having 
integrated sustainability into our governance, daily operations and 
cross-functional working groups, we address this head on by raising 
the ambition levels for our industry. this year, we became the first 
renewable energy manufacturer to have our climate target confirmed 
as being in line with the 1.5°c scenario of the paris agreement by the 
science based targets initiative. the announcement followed our ambi-
tious target to become carbon neutral without the use of offsets by 
2030 – a target towards which we have already made significant pro-
gress by cutting our global carbon footprint by 33 percent. primarily, we 
achieved this by sourcing 100 percent of our electricity from renewable 
sources. but we also replaced 35 percent of our benefit cars with plug-
in hybrid and electric vehicles and introduced 127 electric or sustain-
ably fuelled vans to our service fleet in just one year. by 2025, we will 
only use zero-emission vehicles in our benefit car and service vehicle 
fleet. responding to the urgency of the climate crisis is our highest pri-
ority, and we will continue to calibrate our ambitions to deliver what the 
world needs, when the world needs it. 
at vestas, innovation is integral to meeting our sustainability targets 
and aspirations. through innovation, we can not only solve our own 
challenges, but we shape new pathways that can be leveraged by oth-
ers. we recently committed to work closely with industry leaders along 
the wind value chain as part of the decomblades project, seeking to 
scale the commercial potential of recycling techniques for wind turbine 
blades. this is just one of the many initiatives we are undertaking to 
help revolutionise our value chain and forge frameworks that can serve 
as the ‘new normal’ in the future. 
of course, our success would not be possible without the relent-
less dedication of our highly competent employees. throughout an 
extremely challenging year, delivering progress on our sustainability 
journey has required continuous commitment from team members 
across the organisation, and for this we are sincerely thankful. we are 
also deeply grateful for the support of our customers, suppliers and 
stakeholders from around the world, who have continued to stand by us 
despite the uncertainty caused by the pandemic. 
going forward, our focus will be straightforward: we must dare to do 
more. this mantra must hold true for vestas, as we are leaders of an 
industry that will be the cornerstone of future society, but it must also 
hold true for the industry as a whole. with our recent acquisition of mhi 
vestas and our strengthened partnership with mitsubishi heavy indus-
tries, we are committed to increasing our leadership in sustainable 
energy solutions, and further accelerating the global energy transition. 
we can no longer afford to limit our efforts to business continuity and 
profitability. despite the global disruption we are all facing as an indus-
try, we must keep striving. we must keep pushing the limits of what is 
possible. only through this approach will we build a more sustainable 
future for generations to come. 
yours sincerely,
the vestas executive management team
04   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
our business model
our history
then and now
beginnings
the story of our company begins in western jutland, 
denmark, where in 1898 hand smith hansen buys 
a blacksmith shop. while the evolution of the family 
business follows many twists and turns, it is not 
until 1945 that the name vestas ﬁrst emerges, 
when hand’s son peder founds a steel technology 
ﬁrm. by 1965, vestas is ﬁrmly established as a 
manufacturing company exporting hydraulic 
cranes to 65 countries.
early winds
in 1979, vestas sells 
and installs its ﬁrst 
wind turbine ever – 
with a 10-metre rotor 
and a capacity of 30 kw. 
early investing in new wind 
technology turns out to be a 
stroke of genius. new legislation 
in the united states gives tax 
breaks to wind energy investors 
and early customers place 
several big orders over the years. 
vestas grows from 200 
employees to 870.
gaining focus
in 1987, large parts of the 
group are sold, and a new 
company is born: vestas wind 
systems a/s, which focuses 
exclusively on making wind 
energy a viable solution to meet 
the world’s energy demands. 
continuously optimising our 
technology, in 1991 we install 
our thousandth wind turbine.
major 
milestones
fast forward to 2012, and 
vestas reaches the milestone 
of having installed 50 gw of 
capacity worldwide. just seven 
years later, our installed base 
skyrockets to yet another high; 
by 2019, we have installed 
more than 100 gw of 
sustainable energy. in less 
than a quarter of the time 
vestas has spent focussing on 
wind energy, our installed base 
has more than doubled, 
creating value for society and 
the environment globally. 
leading the transition
today, 75 years since our company ﬁrst assumed the name 
vestas, our history and track record has made us the 
undisputed leader in wind energy. but our expansion is more 
than a testament to our strength as a company; it is a 
testament to the power of sustainable energy. and we are 
leading the transition to a world powered entirely by 
sustainable energy – a journey which has only just begun.
in times 
of crisis
in 2020, against the 
backdrop of the 
covid-19 pandemic, 
vestas becomes the 
ﬁrst company to have 
more than 100 gw of wind 
turbines under service. proving 
that renewable energy is now a 
critical component of our global 
energy systems, our more than 
10,000 dedicated service 
employees ensure a balanced 
and stable supply of energy 
during the global health crisis.
1979
1987
industry leader
in 1998, vestas goes public. shares are launched 
on the copenhagen stock exchange, and the 
capital is used to boost growth. with a share of 
22.1 percent of the world’s wind power (measured 
in installed mw), vestas becomes the industry’s 
dominant player.
1998
2012
2020
power solutions
with developing and manufacturing of 
onshore wind turbines at the core, vestas 
provides sustainable energy solutions 
from site studies to installation.
service
onshore and offshore service solutions 
and performance optimisation for vestas 
and non-vestas wind turbines globally to 
improve business case certainty.
offshore
vestas develops, manufactures, and  
installs offshore wind turbines, enabling 
customers to exploit the winds at sea.
value created
safety culture
safety is always 
our top priority. 
this provides our 
employees with safe 
working environments 
across all our 
operations. 
sustainable jobs  
and employment
we invest in local 
supply chain, 
manufacturing, and 
service operations 
– creating truly 
sustainable and local 
jobs. 
climate efficiency
over the total life 
cycle, a vestas wind 
turbine emits less 
than one percent of 
carbon emissions 
compared to 
conventional sources 
– at lower cost in most 
markets globally.
local community  
development
we engage with and 
create value for local 
communities when 
entering into new 
territories.
return on  
investment
we optimise solutions 
for our customers to 
generate the highest 
possible return on 
investment. 
shareholder value
through our priorities 
for capital allocation, 
we create value for our 
shareholders.
key resources
natural resources
our energy solutions 
utilise natural 
resources such as 
wind.
research and  
development
we constantly provide 
our customers with 
industry-leading 
technology.
human resources
we employ the best 
and most passionate 
people and strive to 
become the employer 
and company of 
choice.
manufacturing  
capabilities
our global 
manufacturing 
and supply chain 
capabilities ensure 
high quality and 
efficiency.
efficient capital  
management
strong financial and 
commercial position 
allows for value 
accretive investments.  
credit worthiness
our green bond 
facility showcases our 
financial strength and 
serves as a business 
enabler for customers.
transportation 
transportation 
manufacturing
installation
service
installation
project development
manufacturing
service
06   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
the vestas 
sustainability strategy
strategy roadmap
the safest, most  
inclusive and  
socially responsi-
ble company in the 
energy industry
initiatives
• introduce safety by design 
initiatives
• explore the potential of 
automation, predictive ana-
lysis and augmented reality 
technologies
• embed diversity and inclusion 
in all talent and leadership 
programmes
• leverage female role model 
initiatives
• capture and implement di-
versity & inclusion learnings  
from the employee exit 
phase
• improving inclusiveness 
across the company
• prepare the business to meet 
increasing mandatory human 
rights due diligence compli-
ance requirements
• creating long-term value and 
local community engagement 
through strategic partners-
hips
carbon  
neutrality
initiatives
• introduce (ph)evs to our 
benefit car fleet
• introduce sustainably-
fuelled vehicles to our ser-
vice fleet
• use sustainable energy in  
heating and transport
• supplier sustainability re-
quirements
zero-waste  
wind turbines
initiatives
• improve rotor  
recyclability
• eliminate waste across our 
supply chain
• launch a circular economy  
strategy (2021)
leading the  
transition to a world  
powered by  
sustainable energy
initiatives
• take a leading role in driving 
electrification  
and decarbonisation bey-
ond the power sector
• team up with sustainability 
leaders to drive change
• support our partners in 
their journey to become 
more sustainable
a world powered 
by sustainable energy
rotor recyclability of 50 %
carbon emission reductions
in our own operations by 55 % 
total recordable rate of 
injuries of 1.5
share of women in
leadership positions at 25 % 
rotor recyclability of 55 %
carbon neutrality in our own
operations
carbon emission reductions 
in our supply chain (scope 3) 
by 45 % per mwh delivered 
to the market
total recordable rate of 
injuries of 0.6
share of women in
leadership positions at 30 %
zero-waste wind turbines
targets
commitments
our approach to sustainability
the concept of sustainability means being able to meet the needs 
of the present generation without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet theirs (brundtland commission 1987). if a value-
generating practice can continue over time, and causes little or no harm 
to people or planet, it is socially and environmentally sustainable.
at vestas, sustainability is grounded in our four corporate values:
simplicity: we eliminate the use of unnecessary resources and opti-
mise our sustainable energy solutions for avoiding carbon emissions.
collaboration we seek a partnership approach to creating sustainable 
solutions, as we acknowledge that great achievements are only real-
ised through joint action.
accountability: we commit to uphold responsibility and inclusiveness 
within and across our business, to always act with integrity and to 
deliver on our targets.
passion: we are proud of our shared purpose to make the world a better 
place – our products are a testament to our passion for sustainability.
sustainability at vestas means reducing or eliminating negative 
environmental and social impacts, as well as maximising the value 
that our business and products provide for our customers, employees, 
shareholders, suppliers, local communities, and the planet at large. it 
also means upholding sustainability in governance structures: holding 
ourselves accountable to internationally recognised principles and 
standards; acting with integrity and responsibility; and safeguarding 
compliant and responsible organisational structures, processes and 
remunerations. we believe these efforts will help to elevate the stand-
ards of our industry as a whole.
environmental 
sustainability
social  
sustainability
sustainability  
in governance
the vestas sustainability strategy:  
sustainability in everything we do
integrating sustainability into everything we do is part of our vision of 
becoming the global leader in sustainable energy solutions. the last 
decade was the hottest on record ever, with temperatures on average 
1.2°c above pre-industrialisation levels (wmo 2020). simultaneously, 
in 2019 human activity was responsible for an all-time high in green-
house gas emissions (unep 2019). in 2020, the covid-19 pandemic 
struck and drastically changed the way people live their lives. while 
emissions for the year are predicted to fall by 8 percent compared to 
2019 (iea 2020), the problem is far from solved. to divert from a path 
with projected average temperature increases of more than 3°c by 
2100, we need fast, bold and dedicated action.
the rapid decarbonisation of the global energy supply is critical to limit 
global warming to 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels. as a proven technol-
ogy, wind energy offers one of the most effective solutions to fight the 
climate crisis and nurture wellbeing for all life on the planet (pik 2019). 
however, given the scope of the challenge, we know we cannot rely on the 
virtue of our product alone; to meet the growing expectations of our cus-
tomers, partners, investors and employees, we need to do more.
therefore, in 2020 we launched our sustainability strategy, sustain-
ability in everything we do. while we continue to create and service 
products that are critical for climate change mitigation, we are now 
on track to become a fully sustainable company. we are working to 
improve our own environmental performance, create value for local 
communities, promote a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace, and lead 
the transition to a world powered by sustainable energy. to succeed in 
these ambitions, we are ramping up our efforts to integrate sustain-
ability not only across our business, but throughout our operations and 
value chain. you can read more about our ambitions and progress in the 
following pages.
during 2020, we delivered the first important steps to realising our 
strategic ambitions:
carbon emissions: we reduced carbon emissions in our own opera-
tions by 33 percent. furthermore, we replaced 35 percent of our ben-
efit car fleet with electric vehicles (evs) and plug-in hybrids (phevs), 
introduced 127 sustainably fuelled vehicles to our service fleet, and 
signed a partnership with enel x to accelerate the electrification of our 
company fleet. read more from page 32 onwards.
zero-waste wind turbines: we launched the cross-industrial and 
interdisciplinary project decomblades, which is designed to help 
expand and scale the value chain for blade recycling. this project aims 
to increase the value of recycled materials and thereby set economic 
sustainability in everything we do
safest, most inclusive &  
socially-responsible workplace 
in the energy industry
leading the transition 
towards a world powered 
by sustainable energy
carbon neutral company  
by 2030 – without using 
carbon offsets
producing  
zero-waste wind  
turbines by 2040
2025
continual
2030
2040
08   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
08   the vestas sustainability report 2020
incentives for recycling wind turbine blades. we also support the 
suswind project, aiming to discover viable ways of recycling compos-
ite materials in wind turbine blades. read more from page 33 onwards.
safety: during the covid-19 pandemic, we minimised risks to keep 
our employees safe, while continuing to install and service wind power 
plants around the world despite travel restrictions and other chal-
lenges. we thereby delivered essential work to help ensure a stable 
energy supply during the global health crisis. read more from page 22 
onwards. 
suppliers: we engaged 10 suppliers, covering 20 percent of our mate-
rial spend, in carbon footprint and cirularity initiatives. we outlined our 
expectations for them to commit to ambitious carbon emission and 
waste reduction targets. read more on page 30.
diversity and inclusion: we conducted an external pay equity audit of 
seven major countries to identify potential areas of pay inequality. we 
also reviewed our recruitment processes, provided unconscious bias 
training to all our recruiters, and invested in technology to help identify 
biased language in our job ads. read more from page 26 onwards.
corporate social responsibility: we launched a three-pillared 
approach to business-related human rights under the heading ‘leading 
a responsible and inclusive energy transition’. furthermore, our work 
with human rights was ranked number one among 20 large danish 
companies by the danish institute for human rights. read more on the 
page 30 and 40-41.
sustainable energy transition: we continued to drive decarbonisation 
and electrification through our collaboration with the energy company 
ok and as a principal partner of the mercedes-benz eq formula e 
team. we also entered a number of other sustainability collaborations, 
showcasing our leadership role within the sustainable energy transi-
tion. read more on page 16.
 “ in 2020, we started to deliver 
on our promise to make 
vestas – and the world – a 
more sustainable place. we 
invite all our stakeholders  
to join us on this  
important journey.”
lisa ekstrand 
senior director and  
head of sustainability
reviewing our strategy
materiality assessment
materiality assessments map an organisation’s significant economic, environmental and 
social impacts against its stakeholders’ interests. by scoping out these impacts and interests, 
the exercise helps organisations to prioritise between a growing number of sustainability 
issues, so that resources can be allocated where they are needed most. 
in autumn 2020, we conducted a materiality assessment as part of an internal and external 
review process to further strengthen our sustainability strategy. by partnering with external 
consultants, we sought to gain an objective understanding of whether our strategic sustain-
ability priorities accurately reflect the challenges and opportunities in the market.
the materiality assessment included four key phases. first, a gap assessment was conducted 
to evaluate our sustainability strategy against emerging mega-trends, both in the wind energy 
industry and globally. during the process, a number of issues relevant to vestas were identified. 
second, selected groups of internal and external stakeholders were prioritised according to 
their interest in and influence over vestas’ sustainability performance. third, in the stakeholder 
engagement phase, some of our most important stakeholders were asked to evaluate the 
issues identified in the first phase. and finally, these issues were then ranked in the materiality 
matrix below. the matrix highlights the material topics to be incorporated into our strategic sus-
tainability outlook in the coming years.
external assessment (impact on stakeholders)
5
11  12
9  8
5  2
4  3  1
4
18
13  14
7  6
3
19
17  15
16
10
2
21  20
1
1
2
3
4
5
internal assessment (impact on business)
top tiering
crucial
1.  materials efficiency, sourcing and disposal
2.  emissions and climate change strategy
3.  waste management
4.  occupational health and safety
5.  supply chain management
6.  product health and safety
7.  community relations
8.  broader environmental role in society
9.  diversity and inclusion
very important
10.  business ethics and anti-corruption
11.  stakeholder dialogue
12.  management of the regulatory and legal 
environments
13.  human rights
14.  labour conditions
15.  ecological impact of project development
16.  employee engagement and wellbeing
17.  talent attraction and retention
18.  critical incident risk management
important
19.  corporate governance
20.  responsible tax
21.  water management
topics have been scored on a scale from 0 to 5
0: not relevant 1: of little importance 2: somewhat important 3: important 4: very important 
5: crucial. please note that topics within the same quadrant have equal weighting, e.g. topics 11 and 12.
as a result, the materiality assessment process confirmed that vestas’ sustainability strategy, 
sustainability in everything we do, focuses on the issues that are most material to our stake-
holders, to our continued business success, and to our overall sustainability performance. the 
issues listed as ‘crucial’ are directly or indirectly addressed in our strategy and will continue to 
be of highest priority in our work going forward. for issues listed ‘very important’, we will aim to 
improve our performance to ensure our activities reflect their significance to the business and 
to our stakeholders. while still material to vestas, issues listed ‘important’ will be addressed 
primarily by maintaining our performance, compliance and ongoing management.
important
very important
crucial
v112-3.0 mw
australia, 2012
10   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
on this journey, we will reduce carbon emissions from our own opera-
tions by 55 percent by 2025. as vestas is committed to leading the 
transition to a world entirely powered by sustainable energy, we will not 
use carbon offsets to help us achieve carbon neutrality. instead, we will 
recure our carbon footprint through our own actions.
why we do not use carbon offsets
carbon offsetting means investing in environmental projects 
that work to reduce future carbon emissions. examples include 
financing the transition from coal to natural gas, or planting 
trees as a form of carbon storage.
carbon offsetting can play a critical role in accelerating the tran-
sition to net-zero emissions at the global level. however, it does 
not replace the need to reduce value chain emissions in line with 
scientific targets and methods (sbti 2020). at vestas, we want 
to lead the transition to renewable energy and eliminate carbon 
emissions by making conscious adjustments to operations 
across our entire value chain.
making sustainability part 
of everything we do, goal 1: 
becoming carbon neutral by 2030 
without using carbon offsets
for us, the ambition to be the global leader in sustainable energy solu-
tions, with wind at our core, means taking responsibility for our value 
chain. therefore, we are also committing to reduce the carbon emis-
sions in our supply chain by 45 percent per mwh generated by 2030. 
we will do this in two ways. firstly, we will continue to support our main 
suppliers in developing strategies to reduce their emissions. and sec-
ondly, we will continue to have a direct impact on these emissions by 
focusing on how we design our products. we have chosen this specific 
target because it incentivises sustainability partnerships with suppli-
ers that reduce carbon emissions, and allows for the continued growth 
of the global renewable energy sector.
in august 2020, the carbon neutrality target for our own operations 
was validated by the science based target initiative (sbti), a pro-
gramme led by the carbon disclosure project, the un global compact, 
the world resources institute and wwf. the sbti confirmed that 
vestas’ carbon neutrality target is in line with the efforts required to 
keep global warming to 1.5°c above pre-industrial temperature levels, 
granting vestas the most ambitious designation available through the 
sbti validation process.
in 2020, we took the first steps towards achieving these goals. com-
pared to 2019, we reduced our own carbon emissions by 33 percent. 
together with 10 strategic suppliers, we also launched amitious initia-
tives to reduce carbon emissions from our supply chain. see page 32 to 
read more about the initiatives that drove these successes.  
sustainability in 
everything we do
carbon neutral company  
by 2030 – without using 
carbon offsets
making sustainability part 
of everything we do, goal 2: 
producing zero-waste wind  
turbines by 2040 
committing to the production of zero-waste turbines means we aim 
to create a value chain that generates no waste materials. we plan to 
achieve this goal by developing and implementing a circular economy 
strategy for the different phases of the vestas value chain: design, pro-
duction, service and end-of-life. we will present this strategy in 2021.
today, vestas wind turbines are on average around 85 percent recycla-
ble. however, our wind turbine rotors (blades and hubs) are currently 
comprised of composite materials which are difficult to recycle. as a 
first step, therefore, we are working to improve the recyclability of all 
turbine rotors, with the goal of increasing the recyclability rate of these 
components from 42 percent to 50 percent by 2025, and to 55 per-
cent by 2030. given the nature of the targets, our progress will only be 
visible over the course of the next years.
in 2020, we introduced a number of initiatives to increase the recycla-
bility of our wind turbine rotors. we launched the project decomblades. 
bringing together prominent partners from the wind industry, includ-
ing other major wind oems (original equipment manufacturers), this 
project aims to create a viable business case for recycling wind turbine 
blades with a special focus on the product’s material and value streams. 
also, as a founding member of the uk’s national composites centre, we 
support the suswind project. launched in november 2020, the initia-
tive aims to discover viable ways of recycling composite materials in 
wind turbine blades and explore sustainable materials for new blades. 
see page 33 to read more about how we are delivering on our goal to 
build zero-waste wind turbines by 2040.
v126-3.0 mw
germany, 2014
sustainability in 
everything we do
producing zero-waste 
wind turbines by 2040
12   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
safety
every day, vestas employees manufacture, install and service our wind 
farms all over the world. without exception, they always operate under 
the principle of ‘safety first’. in order to become the safest company in 
the energy industry, we are committed to reducing our total record-
able injury rate (trir) to 1.5 by 2025 and to 0.6 by 2030. these 
efforts would ensure an overall average trir reduction of 15 percent 
year-on-year. compared to other safety indicators, like lost time injury 
rate (ltir), the trir also includes ‘restricted work injuries’ and ‘medical 
treatment injuries’. the trir therefore provides greater insight to help 
inform our activities and initiatives. our focus on the trir also indi-
cates the maturity of our safety journey, having reduced the ltir by 96 
percent over the last 15 years. now, we are committed to developing 
predictive capabilities for all health and safety risks.
in 2020, we succeeded in ensuring a 15 percent year-on-year trir 
reduction, achieving a rate of 3.3. additionally, we put a strong focus 
on minimizing all risks to keep our employees safe in the covid-19 
pandemic, while providing essential work to keep a globally stable 
energy suply. going forward, we will also increase our focus on improv-
ing safety conditions and due diligence for all our contractors, including 
supervised and unsupervised labour. see page 22 to read more about 
how we are progressing on our safety commitments.
diversity and inclusion
a diverse workforce comprises a range of social identities, enriching our 
culture with varying experiences, perspectives, opinions and solutions. 
these social identities include, but are not limited to: gender identity, 
age, culture, ethnicity, physical abilities, political and religious beliefs, 
and sexual orientation. in a truly inclusive company, everyone feels 
valued and confident that their voices will be heard. it is a question of 
acknowledging that everyone is different, and that we as a company 
are stronger because of these differences. at vestas, we want to be the 
most inclusive company in the energy industry, enabling all our employ-
ees across the globe to achieve their full potential.
gender diversity is a pressing issue in the wind industry, with 65 per-
cent of women in wind encountering gender-related barriers at work, 
compared to 34 percent of men (irena 2020). we are fully committed 
to preventing this issue from proliferating as the wind industry grows, 
and we aim to increase the number of women in leadership positions at 
vestas to 25 percent by 2025, and to 30 percent by 2030. 
while gender diversity is a fair and measurable indicator of diversity 
generally, and while directly addressing gender disparities will be our 
first step going forward, we do consider diversity to be much broader in 
making sustainability part of 
everything we do, goal 3: 
becoming the safest, most inclusive 
and most socially responsible 
company in the energy industry 
definition. therefore, we will also measure progress on nationality and 
age as we continue to increase our focus on diversity and inclusion.
in 2020, we made significant progress in this area. in our external pay 
audit in seven major countries, we found no overall structural issues 
of pay inequality – which we define as performing the same work for 
different levels of remuneration. we also reviewed our recruitment 
processes, trained all our recruiters in unconscious bias, and invested 
in software that is capable of identifying biased language in jobs ads. 
see page 26 to read more about the initiatives we are introducing to 
advance diversity and inclusion across the organisation.
social responsibility
the global expansion of renewable energy calls for a more holistic 
approach to social responsibility, especially in emerging markets. 
at vestas we have adopted a unique approach to respecting human 
rights tailored to our industry, informed by the un guiding principles 
on business and human rights (ungps). this approach, titled leading 
a responsible and inclusive energy transition, will help us integrate 
human rights into everything we do.
recent studies show there is room for improvement in human rights 
performance across the renewables industry (bhrrc 2020). at 
the same time, external expectations are increasing, and business-
related human rights are transitioning from soft law to hard law. 
financial institutions are firming up their demands and and our 
customers are facing increasing pressure to ensure human rights are 
respected throughout their value chain. 
in order to build a truly sustainable and inclusive energy transi-
tion, the entire renewables industry needs to adopt a collaborative, 
cross-stakeholder approach which respects business-related human 
rights. since vestas signed the un global compact in 2009, we 
sustainability in 
everything we do
safest, most inclusive 
& socially responsible  
workplace in the  
energy industry
have been promoting human rights internally and externally (please 
refer to the illustration below). in 2020, henrik andersen, vestas 
group president & ceo, reiterated our commitment to the un global 
compact in its statement for renewed global cooperation. and in 
the same year, our approach to human rights was ranked number 
one among 20 large danish companies by the danish institute for 
human rights (dihr 2020), confirming that we are on the right track 
to implementing the ungps. 
our human rights approach is embedded into our business processes 
and implemented globally. it includes proactively consulting with 
stakeholders to identify, prevent and mitigate project-related social 
risks. during this process, we also identify potential impacts (both 
positive and negative) to our business and affected communities. at 
the same time, we support our customers in respecting and imple-
menting globally recognised international standards, such as the ifc 
performance standards on environmental and social sustainability. in 
doing so, we aim to develop bankable projects and build trust with local 
communities, helping to secure our social license to operate (slo). 
we also achieve trust by investing in local communities, creating jobs 
and funding education, health and access to energy in line with the un 
sdgs. in this way, we strive to build a healthy foundation of community 
acceptance and trust in wind farms.
overall, through our approach to social responsibility we aim to incor-
porate the most important lessons learned over a decade of actively 
engaging with human rights. this work consists of three pillars:
responsibility: strengthening human rights governance and manage-
ment by identifying, preventing, mitigating and accounting for human 
rights impacts.
inclusiveness: creating long-term value and engagement, whereby 
we select the right measures to mitigate possible impacts on affected 
communities.
leadership: ensuring the integration of human rights in the energy 
transition by forming, growing and learning from partnerships and soci-
eties in order to make the right decisions.
delivering on all three pillars requires us to take a firm approach to 
human rights due diligence and to safeguard our slo. the key to suc-
cess is having ongoing dialogue with customers, partners, investors, 
contractors, local stakeholders and governments. additionally, we 
use external experts and civil society organisations to help inform our 
approach, such as the nordic business network for human rights. 
the business-related human rights landscape is rapidly evolving, and 
we will have to embrace these changes together with our customers. 
we therefore endorse the introduction of mandatory human rights due 
diligence in upcoming legislation, seeing this as an opportunity to har-
monise national laws, provide clarity, and level the playing field regard-
ing how business-related human rights are addressed. 
in 2020, we continued to implement recommendations from our corpo-
rate-wide human rights impact assessment, which was conducted by 
the sustainable business experts, bsr, back in december 2018. one 
such recommendation involved updating and optimising our social due 
diligence (sdd) process. we also worked with community development 
projects in india, sri lanka, senegal and jordan. 
going forward, we aim to improve disclosure around our human rights 
performance and develop human rights training materials. as a first 
step, we have introduced three new performance indicators: 
 · the share of engineering, procurement and construction (epc) and 
supply-and-installation (s&i) projects having undergone the sdd 
process
 · the number of community beneficiaries reached
 · the number of community grievances received (please see page 41 
for more information).
updated  
social due  
diligence tool
social due 
diligence tool ver-
sion 2 is released
2017
corporate-wide human rights 
 impact assessment (hria)
hria conducted by third party to map 
salient human rights. recommenda-
tions given to advance due diligence 
processes across the business 
2018
launch of upgraded csr approach
commitment to respect human rights and en-
dorsing mandatory human rights due diligence 
recommitment to un global compact
vestas renews its commitment to the united na-
tions global compact
2020
social  
management  
system
developed as ap-
proach to obtain 
and maintain social 
license to operate
2019
vestas’ human rights journey
sustainable  
development goals
adopted six united 
nations sustainable 
development goals
2016
embedding social due diligence
social due diligence framework embedded into the 
regional sales business units in high risk markets 
launch of the operational  
grievance mechanism
a channel is launched for local community mem-
bers to raise concerns or grievances 
2013
project  
bankability
the business case 
for social manage-
ment “project bank-
ability” is developed, 
in line with interna-
tional standards
2014
review of policies  
and procedures
vestas’ human 
rights policy, social 
due diligence tool, 
and procedures re-
viewed by external 
experts
2015
un global  
compact signatory
vestas embarks on its 
human rights journey 
by signing up to the 
ten principles
2009
human rights policy
vestas’ first human rights policy is devel-
oped and launched
responsible supplier management
management tool updated with human 
rights and labour self-assessment questions
2010
vestas’ human 
rights team
vestas’ dedi-
cated human 
rights team is 
established
2011
social due diligence tool
tool developed and implemented on 
supply-and-installation and epc  wind 
power projects
community development tool to guide in-
itiatives is developed and piloted in india
2012
14   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
with this commitment, we aim to drive decarbonisation and electrifica-
tion beyond the power sector, form partnerships with other sustainabil-
ity leaders to drive change, and support our partners on their journey to 
become more sustainable. with our unparalleled track record, we see 
it as our responsibility to lead the transition towards a world powered 
entirely by sustainable energy.
our partnership with the danish energy company ok provides a 
clear example of how we are driving decarbonisation and electrifica-
tion beyond the power sector. in a pilot project, we have deployed 
a high power charging station by the highway outside of odense, 
denmark. this station will charge evs, exclusively using wind-
sourced electricity by way of a 900-kw battery. the battery will be 
digitally synchronised with ok’s own vestas wind turbine, located 
in jutland around 100 kilometres away. in this way, the partnership 
offers a grid-based solution to charging evs with renewable elec-
tricity, rather than using fossil fuel sources. the system is the first of 
its kind, and it is hoped the experience and insight gained will pave 
the way for wider rollout, further leveraging evs to help fight the 
climate crisis.
in 2020, we also teamed up with several other sustainability leaders 
to drive change in our industries, reiterating our conviction that sub-
stantial and sustainable change can only be achieved through joint 
action. our partnership efforts to increase the recyclability of wind 
turbine blades encompass a range of stakeholders, including suppliers, 
customers, other wind turbine oems and recycling companies, as well 
as universities and knowledge partners (see page 33). similarly, we are 
actively working with partners such as dsv panalpina and hempel to 
decrease the carbon footprint of our value chain (see page 33). going 
forward, we will work to leverage the full potential of these partnerships 
and proactively pursue new collaborative approaches to foster sustain-
able change.
additionally, we made significant efforts to help our partners become 
more sustainable, inviting them to join us on our sustainability journey. 
during the year, we began to closely track the sustainability perfor-
mance of ten key suppliers on a monthly basis. to support these sup-
pliers, we held webinars with a sustainability focus, offered support 
on calculating carbon footprints, and based our annual supplier forum 
around the theme of sustainability (including breakout sessions on 
carbon footprint, circularity, diversity and inclusion). by the end of the 
year, we saw a 27 percent increase in these suppliers’ sustainability 
scorecards over just nine months. in 2021, we will extend the scope of 
this work to cover 27 strategic suppliers, further scaling our knowledge 
and experience to help green our supply chain.
making sustainability part of 
everything we do, goal 4:  
leading the transition to a world 
powered by sustainable energy 
v112-3.3 mw
denmark, 2015
sustainability in 
everything we do
leading the transition 
towards a world powered 
by sustainable energy
interview with morten dyrholm, group sen-
ior vice president, global marketing, com-
munications & public affairs
q: how do you contribute to vestas’ sustain-
ability strategy, sustainability in everything 
we do, in your day-to-day work?
a: in my role as group senior vice president 
for global marketing, communications & 
public affairs, i am able to engage with 
our sustainability strategy in many ways. 
in recent years, we have seen some of our 
most important stakeholders ramping up on 
sustainability. together with my colleagues, 
i therefore work to embed sustainability as a 
strategic value driver for vestas. this includes 
clearly communicating our sustainability 
strategy and initiatives to our customers, but 
also to a broader audience, showcasing how 
vestas wants to take the lead in the sustain-
able energy transition.
q: what is vestas’ stake in leading the 
energy sector towards a world powered by 
sustainable energy?
a: as recent developments have made clear, 
the days of ‘business as usual’ are over. at 
vestas, we recognise that even a company 
like ours must do more if we are to rise to 
the challenge of climate change. therefore, 
we have begun to explore how we can help 
to decarbonise not only our own operations, 
but other parts of our value chain and the 
economy at large. for example, transport and 
industry are both heavy emitters of green-
house gas emissions; as a provider of green 
technology, we can leverage our experience 
and capabilities to identify, develop and scale 
solutions to help decarbonise these ‘hard-to-
abate sectors’.
q: how will vestas achieve a leadership role 
in this development?
a: having pioneered wind energy for 40 
years, vestas has traditionally played a 
leading role in renewable energy through 
its products. as the need for climate action 
intensifies, we are now showcasing this 
leadership across our entire value chain. for 
example, our partnerships with suppliers like 
hempel and dsv panalpina work to reduce 
carbon emissions from industrial coating and 
transport. with these industry partnerships, 
we can leverage our position in the sustain-
able energy transition. our efforts to help 
our suppliers become more sustainable also 
demonstrate how we are seeking to have an 
impact beyond our own operations. through 
dedicated supplier webinars, emissions cal-
culation support and other activities, we are 
inviting our suppliers to join us on our sus-
tainability journey.
q: finally, what is it that personally gets you 
out of bed in the morning?
a: we are now at a point where wind energy 
is highly cost competitive. for us at vestas, 
this means we are uniquely positioned to help 
decarbonise the entire energy sector – not 
only in terms of electricity, but also in other 
areas such as transport, industry applications 
and heating. for me, this is a huge motivation; 
to be able to work towards aligning the world 
with the paris agreement. it is very exciting.”
leading the transition to a world 
powered by renewable energy
 “ we are uniquely 
positioned to help 
decarbonise the 
entire energy sector.”
morten dyrholm 
group senior vice president,  
marcom, sustainability & public 
affairs
#poweredbyvestas
vestas in formula e 
driving the transition towards a world 
powered by sustainable energy hinges 
on our ability to electrify entire sections 
of our economy and deploy these solu-
tions at scale. at vestas, we are working 
to raise awareness of this crucial aspect 
of the energy transition. as part of this 
work, we have engaged with the abb fia 
formula e world championship; one of 
the world’s fastest-growing sports and 
the highest-profile platform for electri-
fication. in 2019 we partnered with the 
mercedes-benz eq formula e team to 
expand our impact beyond electricity 
production and drive key changes in our 
respective sectors. 
as principal partner to the mercedes-
benz eq formula e team, we have 
committed to a host of partnership 
initiatives, both on and off the track, 
to advance the electrification agenda. 
in addition, throughout season 7 and 
beyond, we will be exploring broader 
approaches to sustainability within 
the partnership. the mercedes-benz 
eq formula e team will also be taking 
a much firmer stance on sustainable 
racing and motorsport going forward. 
our aim is to play a key role in driving 
the team’s sustainability programme 
through our own partnership and spon-
sorship activities. in particular, we have 
developed a unique battery energy 
storage system (bess) which will sup-
port the team’s efforts, demonstrating 
that critical climate change mitigation 
technologies are, in fact, already avail-
able. please refer to the vestas 2020 
annual report for further details of this 
solution.
lars petersson, 
group presi-
dent and ceo at 
hempel, with the 
vestas supplier 
sustainability 
award
denmark, 2020
16   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
measuring our progress
 to become a carbon-neutral company by 2030, without using any carbon offsets
 to produce zero-waste wind turbines by2040
 to be the safest, most inclusive and socially responsible workplace in the energy industry
 to lead the transition towards a world powered by sustainable energy
intiative
reduce absolute carbon emissions in own operations 
(scope 1 and 2) without using any carbon offsets
kpi: percent reduction co₂e
intiative
increase blade and hub recyclability
kpi: percent recyclability by weight 
intiative
reduce total recordable injuries
kpi: total recordable injury rate 
intiative
increase the share of women in the board
kpi: percentage of women in the board
commitments
•  to take a leading role in 
driving electrification and 
decarbonisation beyond the 
power sector
•  to team up with sustainabil-
ity leaders to drive change
•  to support vestas’ partners 
in their journey to become 
more sustainable
activities (ongoing)
•  driving decarbonisation beyond the power sector, for example 
through vestas’ collaborations with ok, innovating to charge evs with 
renewable electricity
•  driving electrification in the transport sector through the ongoing com-
mitment as principal partner of the mercedes- benz eq formula e team
•  showcasing leadership throughout the value chain by entering sustain-
ability partnerships, for example with dsv panalpina and hempel
•  inviting vestas’ suppliers to join its sustainability journey, for example 
by supporting them with calculating emissions
intiative
reduce carbon emissions in the supply chain (scope 3) per 
mwh generated
kpi: percent reduction co₂e per mwh 
baseline
2019
0%
55%
mid-term target
2025
100%
long-term target
2030
33%
status
2020
mid-term target
2025
long-term target
2030
status
2020
baseline
2019
0%
45%
long-term target
2030
0%
status
2020
41%
50%
55%
42%
status
2020
3.3
mid-term 
target
2025
1.5
long-term 
target
2030
0.6
baseline
2019
3.9
baseline
2019
status
2020
25.0%
baseline
2019
28.6%
mid-term target
2022
37.5%
1) absolute figures and accounting principles for these indicators can be found on page 49 and 50 respectively.
2)  the 2019 baseline has been updated from 44 percent to 42 percent recyclability due to adjustments in the bill of materials. the decrease from 2019 to 2020 is attributable to a de-
sign change in 2020 that has optimised the metal content in the turbine hub after which the blade mass corresponds to a bigger share of the total rotor mass. 
3)  for diversity and inclusion, the initiative “expanding access to inclusive leadership and unconscious bias training” was removed as it is considered more of an enabler to the kpi related to women 
in leadership positions. since 2020, diversity and inclusion training elements are mandatory in all onboarding processes. read more on page 27.
4)  due to the agreement with mitsubishi heavy industries made in october 2020, the board has decided to postpone this target to 2022. read more on page 26.
intiative
increase the share of women in leadership positions
kpi: percentage of women in leadership positions
status
2020
19%
mid-term 
target
2025
25%
long-term
target
2030
30%
baseline
2019
19%
¹
¹
¹
¹
³
²
¹
⁴
²
18   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
reporting on our 
progress and 
approaches in 2020
key achievements
social
environmental
safety
corporate social responsibility
diversity and inclusion
minimized risks to keep our 
employees safe in the covid-
19 pandemic, while providing 
essential work to keep a glob-
ally stable energy supply 
found no structural issues of 
pay inequality in our external 
pay audit of seven majors 
countries
reviewed our recruitment processes, 
provided unconscious bias trainings 
to all our recruiters and invested in 
technology capable of identifying 
biased language in our job ads
zero-waste  
wind turbines
• launched the cross-
industrial (incl. other 
major wind oems) and 
interdisciplinary project 
“decomblades” to sup-
port scaling-up the value 
chain for blade recycling
• supported the suswind 
project, aiming to discover 
viable ways of recycling 
composite materials in 
wind turbine blades
launched a three-pillar approach 
for business-related human 
rights under the heading  
“leading a responsible and 
inclusive energy transition"
reduced total recordable injury 
rate to an all-time low of
3.3
ranked
#1
for our approach to human rights among 
twenty large danish companies by the 
danish institute for human rights
carbon emissions
• avoided  186  million 
tonnes of carbon emissions 
through our installed fleet 
of wind turbines globally
• reduced carbon emissions 
in our own operations by 33 
percent
• introduced 127 service 
vehicles operating on sus-
tainable fuels to our fleet
• signed a partnership with 
enel x to accelerate the elec-
trification of our company 
fleet
• set expectations to suppli-
ers to commit to ambitious 
carbon emission and waste 
reduction targets
-33%
ebit margin
before special items
5.1%
within guidance of 5-7%.*
revenue
eur 14.8bn
within guidance of  
eur 14-15bn.*
covid-19 resilience
record-high deliveries
despite the global pandemic 
on the journey to become 
global leader 
in sustainable  
energy solutions
acquisition of  
offshore business 
in december 2020, vestas acquired 
mhi’s shares in offshore joint venture.
25% stake in cip
and new development business 
unit established to ramp up de-
velopment capabilities.
* guidance disclosed 11 august 2020, ref. company announcement no. 25/2020.
economic
20   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
at vestas, 29,378 employees around the world are passionately work-
ing to drive the global energy transition. as a company, we rely on their 
ability and motivation to contribute – with their diverse capabilities and 
backgrounds – to our vision of becoming the global leader in sustain-
able energy solutions.
it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that every employee benefits 
from a working culture that is consistently safe, inclusive and collabora-
tive. we want our employees to have the freedom and support to thrive 
and reach their full potential.
health and safety
working with wind turbines naturally presents potential risks and haz-
ards. remote locations, heights, heavy components and demanding 
processes can create a challenging working environment. thanks to our 
unique experience in the wind industry, we work to ensure that these 
risks are identified early and, where achievable, eliminated by design. 
we meticulously assess unavoidable residual risks and mitigate these 
to the lowest levels possible.
incidence of injuries
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2020
2018
2016
2014
2012
2010
2008
2006
lost time injury rate
total recordable injury rate
a decrease of 72 percent
on our way to making vestas a safer place to work, in 2020 we suc-
ceeded in reducing our total recordable injury rate (trir) from 
3.9 in 2019 to 3.3, ensuring a 15 percent year-on-year reduction. 
doing so while having a strong focus on minimizing all risks to keep our 
employees safe in the covid-19 pandemic, it is clear we are making 
good progress. since 2011, we have managed to reduce our trir 
by 72 percent and we remain committed to continuing that positive 
trend. our lost time injury rate (ltir) per million working hours 
remained at 1.2 during 2020.
throughout the year, we continued to focus on incidents with high 
potential for a serious injury or fatality. our approach here is to priori-
tise such incidents and act upon them immediately to eliminate any 
potential risk to life. thereafter, subsequent control mechanisms are 
implemented to ensure there is no reoccurrence.
despite this focus, in 2020 a vestas subcontractor suffered a fatal 
injury. a full investigation has been conducted and we have imple-
mented an action plan based on the findings to prevent such a tragedy 
from happening in the future. such incidents are a stark reminder of 
the importance of following vestas’ safety procedures and life saving 
rules (see below) at all times. 
the road to zero
in recent years, vestas has made significant improvements in reduc-
ing injury rates across the organisation. when incidents occur, we take 
proactive remedial action and ensure compliance with the most effec-
tive control measurements to prevent reoccurrence. we continuously 
place a strong focus on incidents with a high potential for injury and/
or fatality.
industry studies have identified that in approximately 20 percent of 
all incidents, company employees could be exposed to life-threatening 
situations. accordingly, we have devised a process called life incidents 
with fatal exposure – or life. this framework leverages well-estab-
lished lifesaving rules to identify potential exposure to life-threatening 
situations. for every incident, employees apply each lifesaving rule 
individually to establish whether a life-threatening situation persists. 
all identified life incidents must be prioritised and immediately acted 
upon to ensure any potential risk to life is eliminated. this approach 
also ensures that control mechanisms are reinforced or created, with a 
view to preventing reoccurrence of that specific life incident.
at vestas, we are committed to raising awareness about the danger of 
complacency. our seven life-saving rules are firmly embedded in the 
vestas safety culture. they serve as a permanent reminder to employ-
ees that non-compliance or complacency could result in a serious injury 
or fatality.
source: red hjernen
stretch
speak
smile
a life-changing fast response
in spring 2020, two colleagues located in randers, denmark, 
saved another colleague from serious impairment through their 
fast response to early signs of a stroke. recognising key symp-
toms (difficulty smiling and stretching, slurred speech), they 
promptly called for an ambulance. thanks to this rapid reaction, 
their colleague is now alive and well, and has been able to return 
to work safely.
safety awareness
widespread awareness is integral to the management and prevention 
of safety hazards. since 2007, we have deployed a safety awareness 
programme for employees and managers. furthermore, safety training is 
a mandatory part of the onboarding process for all employees. the ulti-
mate objective of this programme is to eliminate all lost time injuries. to 
further strengthen our safety culture and encourage good safety behav-
iours, in 2020 all operational managers and team leaders also attended 
safety courses, amounting to at least 2,000 employees globally. 
during the year, our senior management demonstrated top level com-
mitment to safety by participating in safety awareness programmes and 
‘safety walks’. a safety walk is an opportunity for managers to engage 
in constructive dialogue and discuss safe behaviour with employees, 
helping to find new ways of improving safety within specific job environ-
ments. the programme has been successfully running since 2007. in 
our employees 
2020, the covid-19 travel restrictions limited possibilities for physical 
engagement and interaction at many sites. as an alternative, online solu-
tions were employed to ensure safety dialogue could continue. in total, 
senior managers conducted 26,412 safety dialogues in 2020.
focusing on behaviour
behaviour is identified as the main root cause of workplace incidents 
and injuries. our ‘my team my responsibility’ (mtmr) programme 
builds on a strong foundation of employee engagement with safety 
issues. frontline managers and supervisors work with their teams to 
identify the behaviours they want to improve together. they take own-
ership as a team and drive change and improvement.
the vestas behavioural change (vbc) programme is an employee-led 
safety observation programme. it actively encourages employees to 
observe each other’s behaviour while carrying out specific work-related 
tasks, with recognition and reward for good safety behaviour. equally, 
any identified risk-prone behaviours are stopped and assessed to 
ensure all risk is removed. the programme also encourages open, hon-
est and constructive safety dialogue between colleagues. in particular, 
it emphasises the collective responsibility of vestas employees to pro-
mote safe behaviour across the company.
contractor safety
as the company’s safety performance has improved significantly over 
the years, the performance of contractors has become an increasingly 
important focus area. measures we have implemented to improve 
contractor performance include pre-qualifications, standardisation of 
safety requirements, and intensified tracking of safety performance.
we also continue to collaborate with external partners to drive and 
improve performance across the industry. contractor and supply 
networks are often shared, and improving our partners’ safety per-
formance is considered very important. in 2020, we delivered virtual 
safety workshops for contractors around the world, as the covid-19 
pandemic put an end to all face-to-face engagement. in doing so, we 
adjusted our approach to safety workshops, focusing on providing 
two-to three-hour sessions multiple times a year. in this way, we aim to 
create continuous engagement and awareness around safety with our 
contractors.
throughout 2020, we continued to support the global wind organisa-
tion (gwo), providing resource competency, support and market insight, 
and enabling the development of industry-wide safety training courses. 
this approach ensures a standard of competence for relevant vestas 
employees or contractors, prior to any work taking place onsite. in march 
2020, vestas’ global subject matter expert for health & safety, paul 
robbins, was elected chair of the gwo executive committee, further 
highlighting our ongoing commitment to safety across the industry.
occupational health
our ambition is that all vestas employees and their families look back 
at their careers with the knowledge that their physical and mental 
wellbeing has always been protected. based on the analysis of existing 
data and information, we have identified and prioritised two main work-
streams for occupational health: potential chemical exposure and ergo-
nomic hazards. to minimise potential harm from chemicals, the epoxy 
vision project monitors exposure to epoxy through the use of a visu-
alisation cabin. the aim of the project is to establish whether exposure 
can be monitored, and if monitoring will lead to decreased exposure.
during 2020, we initiated data collection and will continue until the 
project is concluded in 2021. in order to improve ergonomic conditions, 
we launched a dedicated ergonomics programme in a number of pri-
oritised facilities. this programme package is available to be launched 
wherever necessary in the future.
v164-8.0 mw 
installation
denmark, 2020
22   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
working at vestas
employee life cycle
at vestas, our business performance depends on attracting, motivating 
and retaining talented employees. we utilise a ‘life cycle approach’ to 
employment, focusing on the different phases of the vestas employee 
journey. from recruitment, onboarding and development to final 
departure, we aim to provide opportunities for engagement and ensure 
respect and recognition at all times.
e
n
g
ag
e
m
e
n
t
s
i
m
p
l
i
c
i
t
y
c
o
l
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
a
b
i
li
t
y
p
a
s
s
i
o
n
at
tr
ac
ti
on
re
cr
ui
tm
en
t
ex
it
pe
rf
or
ma
nc
e a
nd
 p
ro
gr
e
ss
io
n
re
co
gn
it
io
n
de
ve
lo
p
me
nt
o
nb
oa
rdi
n
g
values and leadership behaviours
values describe principles and standards of behaviour that shape how 
we do our jobs. outlining how we interact with each other and how we 
make decisions, they guide our day-to-day work.
our vision is to become the global leader in sustainable energy solu-
tions. we therefore need the right type of organisational values and 
leadership behaviours to successfully realise this vision. it is our ambi-
tion that our values reflect a deeper level of relevance throughout 
vestas, that they become embodied by all our employees, and ulti-
mately have a sustainable impact on our company culture. to this end, 
we need to translate these values into real and actionable ideals that 
engage us on a professional, emotional and intellectual level. 
the four company values that guide the behaviour of our employees 
and leaders are: accountability, simplicity, collaboration and pas-
sion. these values are embedded across all of our hr processes. for 
example, 50 percent of the performance score in our employee review 
process is linked to the individual’s success in embodying the vestas 
values in their day-to-day work.
employee survey
each year, we conduct an employee survey to measure employee 
engagement and satisfaction. the survey explores how our employees 
feel about their daily lives in and around the workplace. our 2020 
employee survey achieved a strong response rate of 95 percent, a 
two percent increase on 2019. the overall satisfaction and motiva-
tion score improved by two index points to 73, our highest score ever. 
in addition, we also received more than 8,000 individual comments 
from our employees. these comments were read in full and will 
directly inform our efforts to make vestas an even better place to 
work. 
in 2020, we introduced our employee net promoter score (enps), 
measuring how our employees perceive vestas as an employer every 
quarter. in 2021, we will expand the scope, frequency and ambition of 
our employee surveys, ensuring an open ear at all times. by using short 
pulse surveys on a quarterly basis, we will be able to focus on themes of 
specific relevance throughout the year, and have short feedback loops, 
enabling us to make vestas an even better place to work.
attracting talent
we place great value on external collaboration and engagement in 
talent communities, universities and vocational schools. we are com-
mitted to doing everything we can to attract the brightest and best can-
didates. therefore, we actively invest time and resources in developing 
our future workforce worldwide.
we aim to become the employer of choice in the energy industry by 
2023, which will enable us to attract, develop and retain the best tal-
ent in the market. as a first step in 2020, we began to develop a new 
and distinct employee value proposition (evp), which we will be ready 
to activate through a targeted employer branding strategy from 2021 
onwards. given our ambitions to increase the share of women in leader-
ship positions, we have identified women as one of the select target 
subgroups within the evp project.
recruiting talent
attraction and talent recruitment are essential to our ambitions to 
grow, thrive, reach new markets and drive the global energy transition. 
to enhance our attractiveness as an employer and recruit the best tal-
ent, we aim to increase gender diversity within the company. in 2020, 
we reviewed our recruitment process with a view to improving our abil-
ity to attract diverse talent, with a specific focus on gender. read more 
about these initiatives on page 27.
onboarding
the general purpose of onboarding is to enhance the experience of new 
vestas employees. our onboarding process is initiated immediately 
after recruitment is completed, helping to ensure that new employees 
are fully prepared for their first day of work.
in 2020, we implemented a new onboarding system to successfully 
guide and help managers when recruiting and onboarding new employ-
ees. the onboarding process includes two phases: the first phase cov-
ers the time from the employee accepting their position to the first day 
of work; the second phase covers the first 90 days on the job. the aim 
here is to ensure our new employees feel welcomed, well prepared, and 
have a well-structured onboarding plan in place. 
performance and development
in the area of employee development, our continuous performance 
and development (cpd) process is a key tool in the employee lifecycle. 
through the cpd, all employees receive feedback on their performance 
and behaviour for the year, with performance objectives set for the 
coming 12 months. in addition to clarifying tasks, responsibilities and 
objectives, it also provides an opportunity for leaders to discuss work- 
life balance with their employees. 
alongside the cpd, our people review process provides insights into 
employee performance and potential. throughout the organisation, 
reviews for corporate leadership employees are mandatory, although many 
business units choose to review all employees regardless of their position.
to ensure a strong internal pool of successors for key roles, in 2020 we 
initiated a succession planning process across the company. succes-
sion planning involves the evaluation and documentation of potential 
successors, and considers retention risk and next step readiness, with 
a view to mapping out our richest talent pools and potential talent 
gaps. this exercise will inform our talent strategy and identify strategic 
activities required to ensure we become more resilient and responsive 
to the challenges of our fast-growing industry.
in 2020, we filled 69 percent of our vacant people leadership positions 
with internal candidates – a clear sign of the progress we are making 
in growing talent internally. our aim i s to nurture internal candidates 
for senior roles and we work strategically towards this goal through our 
development programmes.
talent management
our annual performance calibration focuses on the development and 
deployment of high-potential employees. we aim to ensure the organi-
sation has the right people in the right positions at the right time. in 
doing so, we set clear expectations for our key roles and strategic capa-
bilities, making it possible to match current and potential talent with 
our business needs and long-term outlook. to support these efforts, we 
conduct a number of in-house talent programmes:
 · the vestas graduate programme is a two-year international 
programme aimed at talented young professionals aspiring to hold 
key positions in the company. participants work on two different 
assignments throughout the programme, with a progressive increase 
in challenge and responsibility. in 2020, the programme comprised 
37 young talented professionals (42 percent women) in different 
locations world-wide.
 · the regional talent programme serves the mid- and short-term 
business needs of the regions, supporting employees with tailored 
development opportunities. programme participants are identified 
during the people review process and nominated as part of 
individual performance evaluations. over a period of 18 
months, the programme accelerates, stretches and 
develops the participants to help fill the regional leadership 
pipeline across all career tracks.
· the rising executives programme focuses on developing
employees with executive potential. over a two-year 
period, participants are challenged with tailored 
development opportunities, learning activities and 
stretch assignments to prepare them for future 
leadership positions globally.
 · the vestas executive leadership programme is intended to refine 
the strategic capabilities of our current leaders across all functions 
and regions. during three core modules spread over ten months, 
participants at vice president level and higher develop a deeper 
understanding of the value chain and a common business language 
by tackling real business challenges. participants take away learnings 
that enable them to challenge the status quo and foster a more 
sustainable work culture.
learning
at vestas, we empower growth mindsets to ensure our employees can 
constantly seek further knowledge through learning, development, work-
shops and knowledge sharing. in 2020, we dedicated more than 1.5 
million hours of training throughout the year, which equates to 62 hours 
of training per fulltime employee. office employees received almost 
400,000 hours (45 hours per employee on average), excluding on the 
job training. service and manufacturing employees participated in more 
than 1,1 million training hours (72 hours per employee on average).
recognition
aside from a competitive salary, we offer our employees a range of 
other benefits. depending on local market conditions, we offer a pen-
sion, insurance plans, health insurance, subsidised lunch, gym access 
and work/life policies, such as flexible working arrangements. we also 
offer free fruit in our offices, it equipment and competitive vacation 
policies. 
our compensation packages are benchmarked against local market 
salaries for each position, ensuring equal and fair pay regardless of 
social identity. and our annual salary reviews are linked to performance 
evaluation to help us achieve strong alignment between performance, 
pay and the external environment. during 2020, we conducted an 
external audit on pay equity, investigating pay levels in relation to gen-
der, nationality and age. see page 26 to read more.
a unique element within our remuneration scheme is our global bonus 
programme. every employee at vestas is part of the programme and is 
rewarded for annual company performance. we use bonus scorecards 
to calculate the exact amount to be allocated each year, and bonuses 
are paid out when and if the minimum success criteria for group profits 
are met.
as part of our efforts to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030 without 
using carbon offsets, we updated our benefit car programme. from 
2020 onwards, we will only be offering plug-in hybrids and electric 
vehicles. by january 2025, our benefit car fleet will be comprised 
entirely of zero-emission vehicles.
exit
when our employees leave the company, we want them to leave satis-
fied; aware of the impact they have made within the company and in 
helping to drive the global energy transition.
their departure from the company can come in many forms. retirement 
is a key sub-stage of the vestas lifecycle. while this is still categorised 
as an ‘exit’ from the company, we work to ensure the right procedures 
and conditions are in place when one of our employees retires.
in other instances, employees may choose to submit a resignation. 
those choosing to leave will receive an exit survey, the aim of which 
is to capture ideas around how to improve vestas as an employer. in 
2020, vestas introduced structured exit interviews with female leaders 
to learn more about how we can improve our retention rate for women 
in leadership positions. and when we have to terminate a contract with 
an employee, we focus on providing equitable market-level severance 
packages in all cases.
vestas graduates, 
batch 2019
denmark, 2019
24   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
diversity and inclusion
in 2020, we continued our efforts to create and sustain an environment 
that actively embraces diversity and inclusion in all areas. at vestas, 
diversity and inclusion are key strategic priorities since they enhance 
employee wellbeing, create financial growth, and lead to more innovative 
solutions. and it is, simply put, the right thing to do. indeed, we want to 
create the most inclusive workplace within the energy industry.
a diverse workforce offers an array of social identities, each bringing 
with them different experiences, perspectives, opinions, approaches 
and solutions. these social identities include, but are not limited to: 
gender, age, culture, ethnicity, physical ability, political and religious 
belief, and sexual orientation.
in a truly inclusive company, everyone feels valued and that their voices 
are heard. it is a matter of acknowledging that everyone is different, 
and that we as a company are stronger because of these differences. 
our commitment to diversity and inclusion includes our board of direc-
tors and our executive management, striving to adequately reflect a 
diverse array of qualifications, competencies and gender.
by focusing on diversity and inclusion, we aim to create equal access 
to opportunity regardless of social identity. further details about our 
definition of diversity can be found in the vestas diversity & inclu-
sion policy on our corporate website. by promoting and encouraging 
diversity and inclusion, we are working to change behaviours, challenge 
perceptions and ensure that equality of opportunity and access is 
prevalent throughout the organisation.
diversity & inclusion mission statement
“at vestas, we believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is 
vital for accelerating the green energy transition globally. we 
know that our differences make us stronger, more innovative, 
and better equipped to address the challenges of the future. 
therefore, we are committed to making sure that all potential, 
future, and current vestas employees are guaranteed equal 
opportunities regardless of social identity. everyone must feel 
safe, valued, and know that their voice will be heard. this journey 
has only just begun – together, we will keep moving forward and 
become sustainable in everything we do.”
gender representation across the company
as part of our commitment to diversity and inclusion, we have set spe-
cific targets for female representation in leadership positions, aiming 
to reach 25 percent representation by 2025 and 30 percent by 2030. 
while gender diversity is a fair and measurable indicator of diversity 
generally, we do consider diversity to be much broader in definition. 
therefore, we will also measure progress on nationality and age as we 
continue to increase our focus on diversity and inclusion.
overall, while 14 percent of vestas’ employees were women at the end 
of 2020, the share of women in leadership positions was stable at 19 
percent over a series of years. in 2020, women still occupied only 19 
percent of our leadership positions, suggesting that increased atten-
tion to both recruitment and retention of female leaders is necessary. in 
2021, a new values, inclusion and wellbeing team will be established 
to support and drive action on attracting, retaining and developing 
female talents. leadership positions comprise a number of positions, 
from specialists to project managers to managers, including those with 
and without people management responsibilities. these positions, cov-
ering general leadership responsibilities for functions, projects, depart-
ments and specific areas of expertise, are considered to be key drivers 
of our values and leadership behaviours. during 2020, the share of 
women in executive management positions was stable at 29 percent.
in line with our target to increase the number of women on our board of 
directors, in 2017 we defined a goal of reaching equal gender distribu-
tion in the board by the end of 2021. in april 2020, the general meeting 
elected six men and two women to the board of directors. therefore, our 
board did not achieve an even gender distribution at the end of the year, 
as defined by the danish business authority. as part of the agreement 
made in october 2020 with mitsubishi heavy industries, the board pro-
poses mr kentaro hosomi, ceo, energy systems, mhi, as board member 
for election at vestas’ annual general meeting in april 2021. for this 
reason, it is unlikely that we will be able to reach our goal in 2021. the 
board has therefore decided that the goal of reaching equal gender dis-
tribution in the board will have to be postponed to no later than in 2022 
for the purpose of strengthening our partnership with mitsubishi heavy 
industries. vestas finds it critical to achieve more gender diversity in its 
board of directors and will work towards reaching this goal. counting in 
employee-elected representatives, 33 percent of our board members are 
women.
given the complex environment our business operates in, it is crucial that 
our highest executive and supervisory bodies can draw from a wide range 
of qualifications and competencies. the members of our board of direc-
tors and executive management utilise their diverse backgrounds in 
management and business, finance, technology and social sciences from 
national and international contexts to achieve our vision of becoming the 
global leader in sustainable energy solutions. 
to further drive diversity and inclusion across our business, we have, 
in line with our strategic ambition, initiated several activities designed 
to help us become the most inclusive employer in the industry. these 
initiatives are outlined below. 
cultural diversity
number of nationalities
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
generational diversity
employees by age group
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
<30
30-50
>50
utopus and sowitec are not included.
pay equity
in 2020, mercer performed an external audit on vestas gender pay 
data to identify potential areas of inequality – individuals receiving dif-
fering pay for the same work – in seven major countries. based on these 
findings, mercer provided recommendations for increasing the number 
of women in leadership positions. in conclusion, the audit found no 
overall structural issues, only identifying pay inequities relating to indi-
vidual jobs across functions and geographies. 
based on the audit results, we conducted an internal ‘equal job’ analysis 
to monitor pay equity and inform action plans on a global and regional 
level. as part of this process, we increased levels of granularity and 
data quality by referring to internal classification of jobs and data. with 
data coverage of more than 70 percent of our global workforce, the 
analysis provided solid foundations for establishing internal reporting 
and an annual pay equity review. the analysis found that most obser-
vations could be explained by objective factors, such as experience, 
location and responsibilities.
we also performed an external market analysis on gender pay 
equity across all seven markets, comparing vestas to the market 
per ‘job family’. the analysis indicated a strong tendency towards 
men being paid more across almost all job families in all external 
markets. in order to ensure a sustainable approach to pay equity, 
we will support our managers with tools and guidance. this will help 
them make deliberate and conscious decisions when setting pay at 
hire and promotion, and work proactively against any instances of 
unequal remuneration.
an inclusive employee life cycle
vestas is committed to ensuring diversity and inclusion throughout the 
employee life cycle. in 2020, we became an ambassador for women in 
wind, and we also participated in the role model campaign with above 
& beyond in order to attract more women into the wind energy industry.
to mitigate bias in our own recruitment processes, all vestas recruiters 
have completed unconscious bias training. in addition, we focus on cre-
ating inclusive job ads, and in 2020 we invested in software capable of 
identifying biased terminology, helping us to reach the broadest pool 
of talents. ultimately, we want to ensure that all our communication is 
inclusive and does not reinforce biased perceptions of different social 
identities.
creating an inclusive and safe culture where each individual can thrive 
also includes attention to both physical and psychological safety. 
building this culture is a continual effort that includes strong focus on 
compliance, ethics, and employee well-being. one initiative was the 
e-learning on sexual harassment, where participants were given the 
opportunity to write open ended comments and suggestions. all feed-
back was presented to members of the vestas executive management 
for continued follow-up.
in order to understand why turnover rates for women in leadership 
positions are higher as compared to men, in 2020 we began to review 
our offboarding and exit survey processes. we expect to obtain and act 
on key insights during 2021, which will help us to further address the 
issue of gender diversity and representation at senior levels.
diversity and inclusion training
around the world, vestas employees are engaging in actions to advance 
the diversity and inclusion agenda. for example, vestas americas, along 
with the regional organisation women of renewable industries and 
sustainable energy (wrise), has sponsored industry-wide development 
opportunities on diversity, equity and inclusion. through this profes-
sional five-part coaching series, our employees will learn about issues 
such as ‘cultural competency’, ‘multi-generational diversity’ and ‘practical 
strategies for everyday wellness’. the regional people & culture (hr) 
function also sponsored a workshop on intersectionality, attended by 
over 100 employees, to discuss various aspects of diversity. 
we are aware that the engagement of middle and executive managers 
is critical to the continued success of our diversity and inclusion pro-
gramme. in 2020, vestas america transitioned its leadership training 
initiative, tackling the blind spots together, to an online format, encour-
aging interaction with employees while adjusting development needs to 
the conditions imposed by the global pandemic. over 280 employees, of 
whom 160 are people managers, completed the workshop.
our diversity and inclusion efforts are also embedded across our 
talent development programme. for example, the vestas rising 
executives programme is a 22-month scheme focused on developing 
employees with executive potential. participants are challenged with 
tailored development opportunities, learning activities, and stretched 
assignments to prepare them for future leadership positions globally. 
crucially, they are also assigned to mixed working groups that change 
periodically in order to maximise engagement with peers from diverse 
backgrounds, functions and regions. 
in 2020, we introduced the creating an inclusive workplace e-learning 
course, which is now mandatory for all new employees. to date, 2,363 
employees have completed this inclusion training globally.
vestas nacelles
lübeck, germany
a public stance against racism
as part of our increasing commitment to diversity and inclusion 
globally, in june 2020 we joined other leaders in the sustainable 
energy industry to make a public statement against racism.
26   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
the diversity & inclusion advisory board
to stimulate ideas and feedback on diversity 
and inclusion initiatives and goals, we appointed 
a diversity & inclusion advisory board. the 
advisory board consists of six employees, who 
represent the company’s six  functions and all 
five regions. vestas’ head of sustainability and 
head of diversity & inclusion are also permanent 
members. membership of this board rotates 
every second year to encourage a dedicated and 
engaged membership body.
in 2020, members of the advisory board con-
tinued to examine our diversity and inclusion 
data. they reflected on trends and best prac-
tices, explored new initiatives and targets, and 
acted as ambassadors across their respective 
functions. due to changes in membership and 
the impact of covid-19, the advisory board 
met only twice during the year, but will resume 
its usual frequency of four to five times per 
year in 2021 if circumstances allow.
in addition to the diversity & inclusion advisory 
board, in 2020 we also appointed dedicated 
regional partners in each of our five regions. 
these partners ensure the effective and 
respectful implementation of our diversity 
and inclusion agenda, while understanding 
and accounting for regional differences. in 
2020, this process enabled us to align multiple 
initiatives with local business challenges and 
legislative updates. furthermore, our diversity 
and inclusion partners provided local insights to 
help shape our recruitment, branding and devel-
opment opportunities.
partnerships for diversity and inclusion
as part of our ambition to take a leadership 
role in improving diversity and inclusion, we 
have embarked on various strategic industry 
partnerships. globally, we have engaged in the 
women in wind partnership with the global 
wind energy council, while locally we have 
collaborated with wind denmark, the danish 
wind sector organisation.
in 2020, we engaged in the following partner-
ships and collaborations:
 · signing a pledge with other danish and 
nordic ceos on acting inclusively, building a 
balanced talent pipeline, and committing to 
flexible workplaces
 · joining the valuable 500 movement, which 
aims to get 500 of the world’s largest 
businesses to commit to embedding disability 
inclusion within their leadership agendas
 · signing the women’s empowerment 
principle (established by un global 
compact and un women) in brazil, with 
global commitment as a planned next step. 
internally, in 2020 we made many collabora-
tive efforts to improve awareness and engage-
ment across our organisation. we worked to 
ensure that easily available communication for 
all managers and employees, along with clear 
descriptions of purpose, initiatives and strat-
egy, were accessible for all hiring managers. 
we also prioritised diversity and inclusion at 
our annual supplier forum and in an ongoing 
supplier working group. 
diversity and inclusion
q: how do you contribute to vestas’ sustain-
ability strategy, sustainability in everything 
we do, in your day-to-day work?
a: for me, it is crucial to lead by example with 
small things before thinking big. for example, 
in the service department where i work, we 
have begun to switch to sustainably-fuelled 
service vehicles. but initiating such things 
without having a comprehensive sustain-
ability mindset in place is an isolated effort 
only. therefore, i also focus on day-to-day 
contributions, such as paperless working and 
waste recycling. and with all the coffee that a 
colombian person can drink, i always use my 
own mug! but sustainability at vestas also 
includes our ambition to be the most inclusive 
company in the energy industry. that’s why i 
have decided to contribute my personal expe-
rience and step up as a diversity & inclusion 
ambassador.
q: what does your role as a diversity & inclu-
sion ambassador involve?
a: as i see it, my role as a diversity & inclusion 
ambassador is about being able to tell my story. 
i would like to believe that i am a good example 
of diversity; not only being a woman among 
mostly male peers, but also coming from latin 
america and working for a european company 
in asia. i think it’s absolutely essential to create 
awareness about the benefits of being open, 
inclusive and giving the same opportunities to 
people from different cultures. as humans, we 
tend to choose friends or colleagues who are 
similar to us and who share our own beliefs. but 
in doing so, we miss a big opportunity for learn-
ing and growth. we are a company driven by 
innovation, but isn’t innovation also dependent 
on doing things differently? here, diversity is a 
great enabler and as ambassadors we need to 
promote this way of thinking in our work envi-
ronments.
q: how can i as a leader/employee contrib-
ute to creating a diverse and inclusive work 
environment?
a: as a general approach, we need to avoid 
any type of bias in our daily interactions with 
our teams and stakeholders. by bringing 
diversity into our teams with new hires, or 
through interactions with different regions or 
departments, we can embrace new ideas and 
realise the immense potential of diversity and 
inclusion.
q: finally, what is it that personally gets you 
out of bed in the morning?
a: to make a difference with the things i do every 
day and accomplish my personal and profes-
sional objectives. being married to the best hus-
band in the world is also a great motivation!
 “ it’s absolutely essential to 
create awareness about the 
benefits of being open and 
inclusive.”
alejandra arbelaez sierra 
vice president service asp, and diversity & 
inclusion ambassador
interview with alejandra arbelaez sierra,  
vice president service asp, and diversity  
& inclusion ambassador
selected vestas employees data for 2020
employees by region and function 1), 2)
number
europe  
 and africa
americas
asia  
pacific
total
manufacturing &  
global sourcing
4,235
2,681
2,924
9,840
sales and service
6,856
3,259
2,140
12,256
power solutions
1,447
39
518
2,004
others
4,199
153
631
4,982
total
16,738
6,132
6,213
29,082
employees by age group and gender 1)
percent
<30  
years
30–50 
years
>50  
years
total
female
3.2%
8.7%
2.1%
14.0%
male
17.7%
57.3%
11.1%
86.0%
total
20.9%
65.9%
13.1%
100.0%
employees by employment contract and gender 1)
number
standard 
employment
temporary
total
female
3,861
205
4,066
male
24,265
751
25,016
total
28,127
955
29,082
employees (standard employment)  
by employment type and gender 1)
number
full time
part time
total
female
4,022
44
4066
male
24,990
26
25,016
total
29,012
70
29,082
new employees by region and gender1), 3)
number
europe  
and africa
americas
asia  
pacific
total
female
333
93
160
586
male
1,406
956
690
3,052
total
1,739
1,049
850
3,638
new employees by age group and gender1), 3)
number
<30  
years
30–50 
years
>50  
years
total
female
291
276
19
586
male
1,375
1,523
154
3,052
total
1,666
1,799
173
3,638
turnover by region 1)
number · percent
europe  
and africa
americas
asia  
pacific
total
no. employees
12,950
6,291
5,833
25,074
no. employees leaving
882
1,575
538
2,995
turnover
6.8%
25.0%
9.2%
11.9%
turnover by gender1)
number · percent
female
male
total
no. employees
3,470
21,589
25,058
no. employees leaving
458
2,537
2,995
turnover
13.2%
11.8%
12.0%
turnover by age 1)
number · percent
<30  
years
30–50 
years
>50  
years
total
no. employees
5,236
16,652
3,175
25,063
no. employees leaving
1,066
1,684
245
2,995
turnover
20.4%
10.1%
7.7%
11.9%
employees by level and age 1)
percent
<30  
years
30–50 
years
>50  
years
total
leadership positions
0.3%
11.5%
2.8%
14.5%
other
20.6%
54.4%
10.4%
85.5%
total
20.9%
65.9%
13.1%
100%
employees by level and gender 1)
percent
female
male
total
leadership positions
2.8%
11.7%
14.5%
other
11.2%
74.3%
85.5%
total
14.0%
86.0%
100%
board of directors by age group and gender 4)
percent
<30  
years
30–50 
years
>50  
years
total
female
0%
0%
25.0%
25.0%
male
0%
0%
75.0%
75.0%
total
0%
0%
100%
100%
1) utopus and sowitec are not included.
2) former mhi vestas employees are included in "others". at year end, the acqusition had been completed, but the employee integration planning was still ongoing. 
3) former mhi vestas employees are no included. 
4)  only board members elected by the general meeting are included. 
28   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
human rights
vestas is committed to respecting human rights as set out in the 
un guiding principles on business and human rights, and in our 
human rights policy. this policy outlines our pledge to respect all 
human rights and includes our expectations for business partners.
as the scale of renewable energy increases, so do our responsibilities. 
to this end, we have adopted a unique approach to respecting human 
rights to support our progress towards ‘leading a responsible and 
inclusive energy transition’.
as part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we have 
launched the next step on our human rights journey. in september 
2020, we introduced a three-pillared approach focusing on:
 · responsibility: strengthening human rights governance and 
management
 · inclusiveness: creating long-term value and engagement in the 
markets where we operate
 · leadership: ensuring the integration of human rights within the 
energy transition
during 2020 we applied key recommendations to our due diligence 
methodology, continuing the work from our 2018 corporate-wide 
human rights impact assessment. this process will help us ensure 
that we identify the most salient human rights issues during the con-
struction of wind farm projects, and that these issues are prevented or 
mitigated. this includes but is not limited to: community engagement 
in projects, community health and safety, local communities' livelihood 
in projects, land acquisition, and resettlement.
business ethics
our code of conduct sets out rules and principles that outline the 
behavioural expectations of all vestas employees. building and main-
taining an ethical culture is also key to reducing and managing poten-
tial legal, operational and reputational risks. this process requires that 
we continuously strengthen our policies and procedures while nurtur-
ing a culture of compliance. 
as a global company we operate in many different countries, each with 
their own unique way of conducting business , requiring continuous 
effort to harmonise business practices according to the vestas code 
of conduct. in 2020, we increased our focus on risk identification in 
our anti-bribery and corruption programme by aligning our regional 
initiatives and focusing on knowledge sharing. due to the covid-19 
pandemic, we shifted our awareness raising and training activities to 
online platforms. we also continued to strengthen regional knowledge 
sharing through the vestas global compliance network.
global anti-bribery & corruption campaign
building a strong compliance culture is a not a destination, but a 
journey. in 2020, we focused on four thematic global campaigns: 
hard decisions, transparency, integrity and consequences. in 
order to reach the whole organisation, these campaigns included 
interactive webinars, training toolkits for managers, intranet arti-
cles, posters and competitions.
ethicsline 
ethicsline is our whistle-blower mechanism that enables employees 
and associates to report violations of the vestas code of conduct, 
applicable laws, and vestas’ policies and procedures. since 2007, 
ethicsline has helped ensure that such violations are always brought 
forward and dealt with appropriately.
the main purpose of ethicsline is to provide vestas’ employees, busi-
ness partners, or anyone associated with the company, with a place to 
report unethical behaviour or practices observed in the workplace. in 
addition, it provides guidance for employees who are in doubt about 
certain ethical issues.
all vestas employees have an obligation to report any suspected or actual 
misconduct relating to fraudulent practices, business ethics misconduct, 
and/or violations of laws and policies. we encourage all employees to 
report any suspected or actual misconduct.
ethicsline cases
number
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
in 2020, we upgraded the ethicsline platform to be 
more user-friendly, with simplified reporting and a 
new mobile application. as accountability is one of 
our core values, and as we encourage everyone to 
speak up, we believe in making this tool as accessi-
ble and easy to use as possible. ethicsline is hosted 
on a secure external website where anyone can raise 
a concern without fear of repercussion. the platform 
allows reporters to remain anonymous, except in 
our responsibilities
instances when this would be specifically prohibited by law. subject to 
applicable laws, all matters reported through ethicsline are investigated 
thoroughly and everyone involved is treated fairly.
we take a zero-tolerance approach to any form of retaliation against 
employees making a report in good faith, whether the report is ulti-
mately substantiated or not. the same applies to individuals who coop-
erate as part of an ethicsline investigation (for example as witnesses). 
in parallel with the platform upgrade, we also developed and launched 
a new ethicsline policy. the policy sets out the platform’s rules, and 
explains which kind of issues are reportable, and the protection avail-
able to reporters and witnesses.
as part of our work on the platform improvements, we launched an ambi-
tious global communication campaign to raise awareness of the new 
tools. the launch included emails from senior leadership to set the ‘tone 
from the top’, interactive webinars, an animated 'how-to' video, and sev-
eral intranet articles. these efforts led to an increase in ethicsline cases 
in the latter half of 2020 and affirmed the need for continuous, ongoing 
communication around the platform to build long-lasting trust. 
in 2020, substantiated cases led to various disciplinary actions, 
including 26 warnings and 27 dismissals.
suppliers
vestas has a broad and complex supply chain. a wind turbine consists 
of several thousand parts delivered by several thousand suppliers. 
components and raw materials currently make up more than 80 per-
cent of the carbon footprint of the product manufacturing process. 
therefore, in order to improve the sustainability of our products and 
our entire value chain, we continuously work with suppliers to enhance 
shared processes and practices.
as part of our sustainability strategy, sustainability in everything we 
do, we are committed to reduce carbon emissions from our supply 
chain by 45 percent per mwh generated by 2030, and to produce zero-
waste turbines by 2040. to achieve these goals, we depend on our 
business partners’ collaboration. therefore, in 2020 we began working 
with 10 strategic suppliers, covering 20 percent of our material spend, 
to achieve substantial improvements in the areas of carbon footprint 
and circularity. we are asking the selected suppliers to commit to 100 
percent renewable electricity, to set targets for reducing scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions, and to measure production waste for products deliv-
ered to vestas. in 2022, the suppliers will be expected to set targets 
for reducing scope 3 emissions. next year, we will extend the suppliers 
in scope to a total of 27, covering 30 percent of our material spend. we 
also made these expectations an integral part of our sustainability-
themed annual supplier forum in november 2020.
to ensure we maintain exceptionally high standards with suppliers, 
we have prepared the vestas business partner code of conduct 
in accordance with the un global compact, the international bill of 
human rights, and international labour organization conventions. the 
code of conduct outlines the minimum requirements suppliers must 
adhere to when conducting business with vestas. suppliers must then 
undertake due diligence measures to maintain our standards within 
their supply chains. our employees work hard to ensure that partners 
understand and comply with our code of conduct, allowing us to priori-
tise business partners who share our views on sustainability.
it is crucial that the health and safety of everyone involved in turbine 
installation and service is protected. for this reason, every customer 
and supplier must adhere to the vestas safety rules and procedures, 
which are also set out in our business partner code of conduct.
responsible supplier management
as part of our commitment to sustainability, everyone at vestas is 
devoted to responsible supply chain management. through a strong 
qualification and onboarding process, sustainability evaluations and 
global partnerships, we aim to improve our shared sustainability per-
formance. complying with the vestas business partner code of con-
duct is an integral part of our purchase agreements, and we expect all 
suppliers to uphold these principles and standards.
we mitigate supplier risk by conducting third party due diligence 
screenings covering business ethics and sanctions. in 2020, we 
screened 2989 suppliers, allowing us to make informed decisions 
about who we work with, develop mitigation actions if necessary, and 
thus lower our risk exposure.
we also assess supplier compliance through rigorous due diligence 
processes. our assessments range from questionnaires to onsite visits. 
in 2020, we carried out 39 onsite assessments for new suppliers glob-
ally, measuring performance against specific quality and sustainability 
parameters. of these, 35 were approved, none were rejected, and 4 
are under approval. we also commissioned an external company to 
conduct 44 compliance audits. when so-called ‘red flags’ are identified, 
indicating that suppliers are falling short of our standards, we initiate 
actions to address the issues raised.
vestas has a formal target on supplier sustainability, which we monitor 
on a monthly basis. suppliers’ safety and sustainability maturity are 
some of the main elements we evaluate. we are currently tracking 154 
key suppliers from a strategic perspective, and evaluating their scorecard 
performance as well as agreed development activities in monthly meet-
ings.
in 2020 we updated certain components of the supplier performance 
scorecard to reflect our new sustainability strategy, sustainability in 
everything we do. aspiring to take responsibility for our environmental 
footprint throughout the supply chain, the scorecard now reflects sup-
pliers' performance in the areas of carbon footprint and circularity. in 
doing so, we assess suppliers based on indicators such as carbon emis-
sions, waste volumes and recycled waste. these scorecard updates 
are intended to make sustainability an integrated part of all supplier 
performance evaluations going forward.
30   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
environmental sustainability
sustainable energy and the climate crisis
more than 860 million people around the globe still lack access to 
electricity, with major implications for health, education and economic 
wellbeing (iea 2020). additionally, rapid economic development in 
asia (primarily india and china), as well as a shift towards electrifica-
tion, reinforce the need for additional energy capacity. indeed, global 
electricity demand is projected to rise by more than 50 percent by 
2050 (bnef 2020).
simultaneously, humankind faces one of its greatest environmental 
crises. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has 
repeatedly warned the current climate change trajectory will inflict 
drastic, global and irreversible damage to both the planet’s ecosys-
tems and human livelihoods (ipcc 2019). to divert from this path, 
policymakers around the globe have committed to keep greenhouse 
gas emissions in line with a 1.5°c temperature increase compared to 
pre-industrial levels.
currently, more than 60 percent of all greenhouse gases emitted globally 
are linked to the energy sector (un 2020). faced with growing energy 
demand and the climate crisis, it is clear the global energy supply must 
decarbonise as fast as possible. at the heart of the global energy transi-
tion, we are developing products that already contribute to avoiding 186 
million tonnes of carbon emissions annually. we are proud to be devising 
and driving the sustainable energy solutions of tomorrow, while also 
working to minimise our own environmental footprint.
sustainable products
today, wind energy is one of the most carbon-efficient ways of gen-
erating electricity. a single vestas wind turbine generates around 30 
to 50 times more energy than it consumes during its entire lifecycle. 
this level of efficiency creates enormous potential for reducing carbon 
emissions when implemented in global energy systems. to date, our 
total delivered capacity of 129 gw globally has helped to avoid 1.5 
billion tonnes of carbon emissions, equivalent to removing 1 billion 
eu passenger cars from the roads for a year. and we are continuing to 
scale this potential; in 2020, we increased our installed capacity by 14 
percent compared to 2019.
although our sustainable energy solutions serve to avoid carbon emis-
sions all over the world, we recognise that our products have negative 
environmental impacts. in our qhse policy, we outline that mitigating 
these impacts is paramount to us. we are working closely with our sup-
pliers and customers to enhance the environmental performance of our 
solutions across a broad range of issues.
carbon footprint
as we look to increase our leadership in sustainable energy solutions, 
we also aim to become carbon-neutral in our own operations by 2030, 
without using carbon offsets. in 2020, the science based targets 
initiative (sbti) validation confirmed that our greenhouse gas reduc-
tion target is aligned with the paris agreement’s 1.5°c scenario. it also 
confirmed that vestas was the first renewable energy manufacturer 
to develop a science based target compliant with this scenario for 
scope 1 and 2 emissions. furthermore, we are committed to reducing 
emissions from our supply chain by 45 percent per mwh generated by 
2030. see page 12 to read more about these targets.
in 2020, emissions from our own operations amounted to 73,000 
tonnes of co₂e. this corresponds to a 33 percent reduction from 
2019, achieved primarily by sourcing our electricity from renewable 
sources. to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030, we have launched four 
top-level initiatives. these are: 
 · sourcing 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources
 · switching our benefit cars to (ph)evs
 · introducing sustainably fuelled vehicles to our service fleet
 · increasing our use of renewable energy for heating in factories
our membership of re100 reinforces our commitment to sourcing 
100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources. and while we 
have derived a large share of our electricity from renewable sources 
v150-4.2 mw
denmark, 2019
since 2013, and compensated for non-renewable electricity use, in 
2020 we achieved our 100 percent renewables goal across our opera-
tions globally. 
by 2025, we will phase out benefit cars powered by fossil fuels. in 
2020, we converted 35 percent of our fleet to (ph)evs. to support the 
scale-up of (ph)evs, we have signed a partnership with enel x to accel-
erate the electrification of our company fleet. through the agreement, 
enel x will provide us with the required charging infrastructure to elec-
trify our corporate fleet across our most prominent service markets.
in terms of our service fleet, we introduced 127 sustainably fuelled 
vehicles during 2020, including evs and biofuel vehicles meeting strict 
sustainability criteria. this is the start of a transition to a fully sustain-
able service fleet, with the aim of using only zero-emission service 
vehicles from 2025. doing so, 2020 provided  valuable insights for the 
continued roll-out of this programme in the coming years.
finally, we are increasing the use of renewable energy for heating in our 
factories, while improving our energy efficiency across all sites globally. 
in 2020, we began by mapping our energy consumption and initiated a 
number of projects in this area. for example, we transitioned one of our 
repair shops in denmark from natural gas to district heating, which is 
partly renewable. 
additionally, we continued to tackle the more complex and ambitious 
undertaking of reducing carbon emissions from our supply chain. as 
around 99 percent of our entire carbon footprint stems from our sup-
pliers’ operations, we are determined to work collaboratively towards 
greening our supply chain. in order to live up to this ambition, in 2020 
we engaged ten strategic suppliers covering 20 percent of our material 
spend to set baselines and formalise targets in their business plans. 
in 2021, we will involve 17 additional suppliers in this initiative. addi-
tionally, we have made sustainability the central theme of our annual 
supplier forum to outline our expectations to suppliers going forward 
(page 31). as expected, we did not yet see a reduction of carbon emis-
sions in our supply chain in 2020, as the initiatives we launched are of 
a mid- to long-term nature.
to support our efforts in this area, we have entered sustainability 
partnerships with our suppliers dsv panalpina and hempel, working to 
reduce emissions from transport and industrial coatings. the partner-
ship with dsv panalpina involves a mutual commitment to reduce and 
eliminate carbon emissions related to transport and logistics. together 
with hempel, we aim to reduce surface treatment costs and support 
sustainable coating solutions. initial calculations suggest that chang-
ing the surface treatment application process for wind turbines will 
potentially reduce carbon emissions by 60 percent per year.
climate change risks and governance (tcfd)
at vestas, climate change issues and risks are subject to a comprehen-
sive governance structure, integrated into our general sustainability 
governance (see page 42). our board of directors functions as the 
highest governance body for climate-related risks and opportunities. 
climate change is frequently discussed by two of its specific commit-
tees. the technology & manufacturing committee evaluates sustain-
ability performance generally, while the audit committee evaluates 
climate risks specifically. the highest executive responsibility lies with 
group president & ceo, henrik andersen, who oversees climate-related 
risks and opportunities on a quarterly basis. this process is informed 
by a cross-functional sustainability committee, which discusses such 
risks and opportunities throughout the year.
as part of our annual enterprise risk management process, we work 
to identify, asses, register and manage all probable risks across the 
company with a financial impact above eur 15m. this risk manage-
ment process covers our direct operations, as well as upstream and 
downstream risks, including climate-related risks. an example of a 
core climate-related risk would be the impact of extreme weather 
events on our global manufacturing footprint. at the same time, as the 
global leader in wind energy solutions, we are well positioned to take 
advantage of business opportunities arising from climate change. such 
opportunities include increased revenue due to the use of policy sup-
port schemes, and growing demand for low-carbon electricity genera-
tion technology.
in turn, our risk management process for climate-related issues feeds 
back into our climate strategy and our reporting to the carbon disclo-
sure project (cpd), among other schemes. see page 12 to read more 
about our carbon neutrality goal and page 18 for our supporting kpis.
circularity
one of our key sustainability goals is to build zero-waste wind turbines 
by 2040. this goal involves committing to improvements in circular-
ity from two angles. on the one hand, we are working on end-of-life 
solutions for our turbines, with a view to creating fully recyclable prod-
ucts. on the other hand, we aim to create a value chain which aims at 
generating zero waste materials. we are working on initiatives with an 
immediate focus on composite materials, with a view to recycling wind 
turbine blades and preventing waste in production. we will present a 
comprehensive circular economy strategy in 2021.
zero-waste definition
by ‘zero waste’, we mean preventing all waste and developing 
a circular economy for all materials, including the carbon cycle. 
a goal rather than a hard target, through circularity we aim to 
reuse, repair, remanufacture or recycle, without recourse to 
incineration or landfilling. this process encompasses all our own 
operations as well as our direct suppliers, covering design and 
procurement, production, construction, service and sales, and 
end-of-life solutions.
today, vestas wind turbines are on average 85 percent recyclable. 
however, our wind turbine rotors (blades and hubs) are partially com-
prised of composite materials, which are more difficult to recycle. as 
a first step, we are therefore working to improve the recyclability of all 
turbine rotors, with the goal of increasing their recyclability rate from 
42 percent¹ to 50 percent by 2025 (by weight), and to 55 percent by 
2030. in 2020, the recyclability rate slightly decreased to 41 percent. 
this is the result of a design change optimizing the metal content in the 
turbine’s hub, after which the blade mass corresponds to a bigger share 
of the total rotor mass. still, we remain committed to our ambitions and 
are confident that a number of promising initiatives (described below) 
will lead to the desired recyclability rate.
5)   the 2019 baseline has been updated from 44 percent to 42 recyclability due to adjustments in the bill of materials.
32   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
decomblades partners
wind turbine 
blade
wind farm
blade shredding
and transport
pyrolysis
recycling materials 
into new products
co-processing
blade  
end-of-life
manufacture
and
deployment
the decomblades project is a large cross-
sector collaboration focusing on value chains 
for recycling end-of-life (eol) wind turbine 
blades. through collaboration with other 
major wind oems, recycling companies and 
knowledge partners, decomblades aims to 
identify one or more sustainable, globally 
available and economically feasible recycling 
routes for eol blades. specifically, we will 
support the development of material and 
value streams for three recycling routes, 
with all recycling technologies undergoing a 
complete lifec ycle analysis including global 
warming potential. the project will run for 
three years and is partly funded by innovation 
fund denmark (ifd).
as a founding member of the uk’s national 
composites centre, we support the suswind 
project (ncc 2020), which was launched 
in november 2020. this initiative brings 
together leading stakeholders in the compos-
ites industry and energy sector, and serves to 
drive future sustainability of the wind turbine 
technology by means of three pathways. first, 
it aims to discover viable ways of recycling 
composite materials in wind turbine blades. 
second, it explores the use of more sustain-
able materials, such as bio-derived feedstock 
or thermoplastics in developing composites 
for turbine blades. and third, it aims at devel-
oping innovative new approaches based on 
design for disassembly, utilising sustainable 
materials and with end-of-life strategies in 
mind.
we are also collaborating with universities 
and suppliers to develop technology and 
materials to increase the recyclability of tur-
bine rotors. for example, in partnership with 
one of our epoxy suppliers, we launched a 
project to develop new composite technolo-
gies that enable resin dismantling for end-of-
life turbine blades. this will potentially enable 
‘design-for-disassembly’ to be integrated into 
future blade technology.
in 2020, we worked to implement a gov-
ernance structure to apply the concept of 
circularity to all wind turbine components, 
zero-waste wind turbines
interview with peter garrett (left), senior environmental specialist,  
and allan korsgaard poulsen (right) , cluster lead and senior specialist.
q: how do you contribute to vestas’ sus-
tainability strategy, sustainability in eve-
rything we do, in your day-to-day work?
peter: allan and i are leading vestas’ efforts 
to build zero-waste wind turbines by 2040, 
which is one of four key ambitions within our 
sustainability strategy. we have been deeply 
involved in developing the strategy and inte-
grating it across the businesses.
allan: and currently, we are taking big 
steps forward. we have recently finished 
defining baselines for all different modules 
in a vestas wind turbine, so now we really 
get to work. together with the cross-func-
tional teams, we are identifying impactful 
initiatives to reduce our waste in all parts of 
the business. additionally, we’re still aiming 
to improve the recyclability of wind turbine 
rotors, which include hub and blades.
q: why is it so difficult to increase the recy-
clability of rotors?
peter: today, turbines are around 80-to-90 
percent recyclable, depending on the turbine 
variant and configuration. blades, however, 
have to be as light and robust as possible, 
enduring severe weather conditions. here 
composites are the ideal materials, being 
made primarily of epoxy, glass and carbon 
fibre. the disadvantage is that the combina-
tion of these materials makes them very 
difficult to recycle. there are available recy-
cling technologies for composite materials 
via mechanical, thermal or chemical routes. 
however, the issue is one of economics, 
recycling quality and scale. presently, few 
options are commercially viable and new 
value chains will need to be established.
q: how are you making progress to achieve 
fully recyclable wind turbine rotors?
allan: last year, we kicked off a number of 
promising initiatives. one example is decom-
blades, where we have teamed up with other 
major oems, companies across the blade 
recycling value chain as well as universities. 
together, we are working towards establish-
ing commercially viable recycling routes for 
wind turbine blades. but we are also leverag-
ing partnerships for innovation, develop-
ing recycling technologies as part of the 
suswind project, while also working on new 
degradable composite materials with one of 
our epoxy suppliers.
q: finally, what is it that personally gets you 
out of bed in the morning?
peter: i think it’s highly motivating to drive 
these developments. these are challenges 
that concern the entire wind energy industry, 
which means the progress we’re making is 
moving the needle for the whole sustainable 
energy transition.
allan: at the same time, it also means there is 
huge potential for collaboration. for me, it is 
very rewarding to work with highly competent 
people from our supply chain and adjacent 
industries. it’s the partnership approach 
that counts here; together we can improve 
the already sustainable profile of the wind 
industry.
 “ it is a top priority for us to 
improve the recyclability of 
wind turbine rotors.”
allan korsgaard poulsen
cluster lead & senior specialist
v112-3.0 mw
denmark, 2013
this work is partly funded by the  
innovation fund denmark (ifd).
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
34   the vestas sustainability report 2020
covering the entire value chain. as part of this process, we appointed 
sustainability leads who are responsible for developing and imple-
menting specific circularity initiatives and targets. 
in 2020, waste volumes increased by 5 percent compared to 2019. 
simultaneously, recycling volumes increased by 7 percent, with incin-
eration volumes up 17 percent and landfill volumes down 8 percent. 
in service and construction, waste volumes increased in line with the 
heightened activity levels. in manufacturing, the waste generation 
varies globally and depends largely on local infrastructure and turbine 
variants. please see page 38 to read more about the amounts of waste 
produced by our own operations in 2020. 
life cycle assessment (lca)
since 1999, we have been developing wind power lcas to give ‘cradle-
to-grave’ evaluations of the environmental impacts of our products and 
activities. these evaluations concentrate on two key actions:
 · documenting the environmental performance of vestas wind 
turbines
 · analysing the results to reduce the environmental impact of our 
turbines
the studies assess a wind turbine’s entire bill-of-materials, account-
ing for the approximately 25,000 parts that make up a single turbine. 
in an lca, a complete wind power plant is assessed up to the point of 
the electricity grid. this includes the wind turbine itself, its foundation, 
the site cabling and transformer station. our lcas are available on the 
vestas corporate website. 
vestas® sitelca™
as part of our commitment to customers, we provide customised wind 
power plant lcas, called vestas® sitelca™. these assessments deter-
mine key indicators of environmental performance, taking the wind 
turbine type, site specific conditions and production supply chain into 
consideration.
the environmental performance of a wind power plant is site and layout 
specific. it varies across the globe according to local site performance 
and manufacturing supply chain. sitelca™ provides our customers with 
transparent environmental facts (such as carbon footprint, return on-
energy, water-use or environmental benefits, etc.) about specific wind 
plants. these fact-based indicators increase business case certainty by 
supporting the customer’s energy strategy (energy case, power plant 
benefits, index ratings, etc.) and project planning/permitting process.
by identifying key environmental indicators early on in the project, 
customers are well-placed for successful and trustworthy external 
communications of power plant performance. they are also able to 
inform their energy strategy utilising fact-based information. sitelca™ 
may also quantify a power plant’s key environmental benefits (such 
as turbine recycling or repowering options at end-of-life) and identify 
potential management risks, for example by providing material break-
down for decommissioning plans, or identifying potential environmen-
tal impacts.
vestas® site lca™ is delivered by experienced experts and builds upon 
a long track record of disclosing turbine environmental performance 
data since 1999. the service utilises advanced turbine models devel-
oped in-house, complying with international iso standards and third-
party review. these models have been critically acknowledged as pro-
viding state-of-the-art analysis of wind power (garrett & rønde 2012). 
for more information, please take a look at the vestas® sitelca™ 
brochure.
material use
by knowing how our products and materials contribute to the envi-
ronmental performance of a wind power plant, we are able to make 
informed decisions that will minimise overall environmental impacts. 
we use lcas to better understand the material composition of wind 
power plants from a life cycle perspective. the figure below shows the 
typical material breakdown of vestas turbines. for example, a v136-
4.2 mw turbine is composed of around 90 percent metals (such as 
steel, iron, copper and aluminium), 9 percent polymers and composite 
materials, with the remainder being a mixture of electronics/electrical 
items, lubricants and fluids.
material breakdown of a v136-4.2mwtm wind turbine 
percent
 
 
not speciﬁed (0.1%)
lubricants and ﬂuids (0.3%)
electronics/electrics (0,7%)
glass/carbon composites (5.8%)
polymer materials (2.8%)
copper and alloys (0.6%)
aluminium and alloys (1.3%)
steel and iron materials (88.5%)
v136-4.2 mw™ 
544 tonnes
112m hub height and
wind class iec2b
source: vestas, (2019). life cycle assessment of electricity production from an 
onshore v136-4.2 mw wind plant – 1 november 2019, vestas wind systems a/s, 
hedeager 42, aarhus n, 8200, denmark.
rare earth elements from an lca perspective
rare earth elements are naturally occurring elements which, once 
mined and processed, can be used in a variety of high-tech industrial 
applications, such as hybrid car motors and components for military 
v150-5.6 mw
denmark, 2019
hardware. at vestas, we use rare earth elements in the magnets found 
in the towers of all new turbine models (e.g. in the enventus platform) 
and in permanent-magnet generators in the older gridstreamer™ 
turbine models (i.e. the v112-3.0 mw and the 2.0 mw gridstreamer™ 
platform).
rare earth elements improve the performance of turbines by making 
the generators more efficient and grid compatible. this allows us to 
reduce the overall size of the generator and powertrain and use smaller 
amounts of other resources (such as steel and structural materials), 
contributing to a smaller carbon footprint.
two types of turbine drivetrain concepts use rare earth materials: con-
ventional geared drivetrains, and gearless direct-drives. the amount 
of rare earth elements used in direct-drive turbines is up to 10 times 
higher than the amounts used in conventional drivetrains. today, all 
vestas turbines are based on proven technology using conventional 
drivetrains. it is worth noting that the contribution of rare earth ele-
ments used in turbine generator magnets, and in tower magnets, con-
tribute below 0.1 percent of total life dycle impacts (vestas 2014).
product responsibility
when designing our products, we consider sustainability requirements 
throughout our development process, which we call the ‘vestas way to 
market’ global framework. we use this framework for planning, manag-
ing and executing technology and product development across the 
entire value chain. as such, these projects start and end with a sharp 
focus on customer requirements. by involving relevant stakeholders in 
the development process, we can build requirements into the product 
design at an early stage.
vestas way to market is a stage-gate process whereby a group of gate-
keepers ensures that key specifications are met at defined milestones. 
this approach enables us to decide whether to progress a project to 
the next stage or not. the specifications are based on internal vestas 
commitments (such as the vestas’ chemical blacklist), international 
legislation (such as the european directives), and internationally rec-
ognised codes and standards such as the iso, ieee or iec. as part of 
this process, the product design also has to live up to our sustainability 
requirements.
chemical management
the control of chemicals and hazardous substances used in the 
manufacture and service of turbines is a core part of our management 
system. it is essential for our overall sustainability performance. in the 
development of turbines, we are actively working on finding safer and 
more environmentally friendly products. our goal is to ensure a healthy 
workplace for our employees and to minimise our impact on the envi-
ronment.
chemical management at vestas includes global procedures for the 
approval of new chemicals, local instructions for handling, transport-
ing and storing chemicals, and a global chemical database for sharing 
knowledge from suppliers.
in order to adapt to continuously changing chemical legislation globally, 
such as ghs/clp and reach, our prohibited substances list identifies 
a range of prohibited substances. meanwhile our restricted substances 
list limits the use of certain substances which are either expected to be 
prohibited in future or have a specific hazard classification.
we require our suppliers to fulfil the requirements of both lists for all 
products delivered. if the product contains chemical substances out-
lined in the restricted substances list, we expect the supplier to create 
an action plan for phasing out these substances and finding alterna-
tives. we also assess if a timebound dispensation can be signed off, 
and/or if the product can be substituted.
impact assessment
when establishing a wind power plant, the planning process should 
always include an assessment of the proposed location, and how the 
project could potentially impact the surrounding environment. in many 
countries, environmental impact assessments are required by law, or 
are part of the environmental requirements of international financial 
institutions that support infrastructure projects.
in most cases, our customers have the primary responsibility for under-
taking the environmental assessment and developing the environmen-
tal management system for a particular wind power plant. however, 
we work closely with our customers throughout every stage of this 
process. environmental assessments typically take into account direct 
and indirect environmental impacts, including:
 · landscape and visual impressions
 · flora
 · fauna (e.g. birds and bats)
 · noise
 · shadows
fresh water withdrawal
at vestas, we measure fresh water withdrawal on a global level. how-
ever, as the primary use of water in the company is for domestic use, 
the associated environmental impacts are considered to be minor. see 
page 38 for data on our fresh water withdrawal in 2020. overall, fresh 
water withdrawal decreased by 11 percent compared to 2019. this is 
largely due to government-imposed lockdowns of offices. for manu-
facturing, service and construction, fresh water withdrawal remained in 
line with the activity levels.
world clean-up day 2020
in september 2020, vestas employees around the world partici-
pated in the world clean-up day, demonstrating their commit-
ment to cleaning up their communities while observing covid-
19 safety protocols at all times.
36   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
selected environmental data for 2020
vestas’ energy consumption was divided into the following categories:
energy consumption by source
1,000 mwh
2020
fuels for heating (direct energy)
oil
16
gas
114
indirect energy
electricity (100% renewable)
261
heat (71% renewable)
38
fuels for transportation
liquefied petroleum gas (lpg)
1
diesel oil
138
petrol
53
vestas’ water withdrawal was divided into the following categories:
water withdrawal by source
1,000 m3
2020
fresh water withdrawal
from municipal water supplies or other water utilities
333
from ground water
84
fresh water from surface water, including water from 
wetlands, rivers and lakes
4
non-fresh water withdrawal
from surface water, including water from wetlands and 
oceans
0
cooling water
from surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, 
lakes, and oceans
0
vestas emitted waste water to the following destinations:
waste water
1,000 m3
2020
treated by vestas to public treatment facility
64
treated by vestas directly to environment
25
non-treated waste water to public treatment facility
226
non-treated waste water directly to environment
10
vestas’ waste disposal was divided into:
waste disposal
1,000 tonnes
2020
non-hazardous
83
hazardous
6
vestas disposed waste to the following destinations:
waste disposal
1,000 tonnes
2020
recycling
46
incineration
21
landfill
22
vestas recorded the following air emissions:
air emissions
tonnes
2020
voc
268
v90-3.0 mw
usa, 2007
38   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
 “ we do not have all the answers and we cannot do this alone. we 
need to engage with our partners to move the needle on human 
rights, especially in the more challenging emerging markets. 
this is the way we can lead a responsible and inclusive energy 
transition, hand in hand.”
kristian heydenreich
senior director, compliance & csr
social due diligence
human rights are transitioning from soft law to hard law. financial 
institutions are firming up their demands and our customers are facing 
increased requirements and expectations. with this in mind, our social 
due diligence  (sdd) offers a reference framework for navigating the 
human rights impacts linked to wind farm project planning and con-
struction.
to support our emerging markets entry strategy, we implemented our 
first social due diligence framework in 2012. the sdd identifies social 
risks and impacts linked to the construction and service of wind farm 
projects within scope, and sets in motion the processes needed to 
prevent and mitigate them. for projects in scope, we conduct an overall 
assessment of the project and its potential impact on local communi-
ties.
the results from the sdd include actions to mitigate negative impacts 
and scale positive impacts, which are then integrated into project 
plans to ensure integrity in project execution. the sdd is based on the 
international finance corporation’s environmental and social perfor-
mance standards, and the world bank group’s environmental, health 
and safety guidelines for wind energy. this means that, regardless of 
where a customer obtains financing from, we will support the project’s 
execution in line with accepted international standards.
from 2020, we report on three new key performance indicators (kpis): 
the number of community grievances, the number of direct benefi-
ciaries from our community engagement activities, and the share of 
projects in scope that have undergone the sdd process. starting to 
report this year, we are looking forward to tracking these areas closer 
and improving our results for 2021 and beyond. please find accounting 
principles on page 50.
community grievances: to ensure that we receive and handle commu-
nity grievances, it is important that we have a functioning operational 
level grievance mechanism. we are pleased to see that our operational 
level grievance mechanism is used and we will continue to revise and 
improve it so that we can ensure local communities have the opportu-
nity to raise issues with us as soon as they arise. in 2020, we received 
20 community grievances.
community beneficiaries: despite the challenges of covid-19, we 
managed to continue several of our community engagement initiatives 
and reach 14,770 direct beneficiaries in a safe manner. examples of 
these projects can be found on the left side of this page. we always 
consider the project’s sdd results and our six primary sdgs when 
choosing community engagement initiatives in collaboration with the 
local community and our partners.
share of projects in scope having undergone sdd: we are constantly 
working to ensure that all projects within scope undergo the sdd pro-
cess. this also means that we conduct sdds on projects that do not 
reach firm order intake in the reporting year. for 2020 we increased our 
share of projects in scope having undergone sdd to 77.8 percent, but 
still have work to do to meet our target of 100 percent by 2025.
 
investing in our social license
our global approach on the social license to operate (slo) helps cre-
ating a financeable project, through including social risks in our overall 
wind farm project management. through working continuously with 
our stakeholders, such as customers and host communities, we aim 
to understand the local context and build trust and acceptance in our 
projects. we then work to ensure that our own evaluation of potential 
impacts, and our approach to addressing these impacts, is closely 
aligned with our customers’ efforts. as we aim to becoming the global 
leader in sustainable energy solutions, working with various stakehold-
ers such as customers, partners, investors, contractors and local stake-
holders, is the kind of leadership we want to incorporate into our way of 
doing business, and a journey on which we invite all our stakeholders 
to join us.
community engagement 
india
continuing our community development initiatives in india, dur-
ing 2020 we maintained our work on pre-existing programmes 
at several vestas sites and facilities, albeit in a downscaled man-
ner due to the covid-19 pandemic. to date we have supported 
activities in 46 villages across three indian states. activities 
include:  educational support for rural school children; skills 
training for rural adolescents; health and hygiene awareness for 
rural women and children; agricultural capacity building for farm-
ers; and access to water and sanitation facilities. additionally, 
we continued to support an integrated education programme in 
five locations in the greater chennai region, where vestas india 
is headquartered. this programme aims to help 2,000 adoles-
cents from low-income backgrounds complete their secondary 
education, while also promoting higher levels of employability 
and improving life skills.
sri lanka
in sri lanka, we have been conducting a community develop-
ment programme in villages near our 100 mw mannar epc wind 
power project site. the programme extends to rural women, fish-
ermen and children, among others. activities include a month-
long training scheme on fabric painting and design for 66 rural 
women from five village clusters, followed by entrepreneurship 
and financial management training. we are also providing out-
board motor repair training and distributing basic tools to more 
than 170 fishermen from over six village clusters, with a view to 
improving fishing outputs and income. at the same time, we are 
promoting organic farming and improved home-based farming 
practices among 200 women, focusing on awareness raising 
and sapling distribution, while forging links with local agriculture 
authorities. 
senegal
in september 2018, we announced a contract to provide cus-
tomised solutions for senegal’s first-ever wind power plant. the 
new 158.7 mw plant, which is owned by the renewable energy 
generation company lekela, is located in taiba n’diaye, a small 
town 75km northeast of dakar.
as vestas will be servicing the wind farm for the next 20 years, 
building and maintaining a good relationship with the local com-
munity is a vital part of the process. to this end, we are rolling 
out regular community engagement and development initia-
tives, with a special focus on education – one of our core sdg 
commitments. in 2020, we carried out various support activities 
for schools in the taiba n'diaye project area. we repaired sanita-
tion buildings, constructed a new classroom, and donated 1,000 
tables and benches to the elementary school in taiba mbaye 
village, benefitting 565 students and 11 teachers. we also 
repaired the public lavatories and replaced windows and doors 
at the elementary school and college in miname and keur malle 
villages, benefiting 577 students and 24 teachers.
jordan
during the construction of a wind farm, earthworks and the 
heavy transportation of materials often cause dust emissions. 
we assess this potential impact during a project’s design phase, 
carrying out dust suppression measures such as covering the 
trucks’ loads, reducing speed (particularly on dirt roads), water 
spraying, covering powdery material, and avoiding large sand-
piles close to roads and residents.
however, despite these measures, local residents may be more 
adversely affected than originally foreseen. this was the case 
in jordan, where we are building two new wind farms in close 
proximity to one another. during earthworks, local farmers 
experienced negative impacts on their livelihoods due to a 
combination of high wind speeds and soil movements. the dust 
covered livestock grazing areas as well as olive trees, resulting in 
reduced income from olive production. the farmers also noticed 
that their goats and sheep were experiencing respiratory dif-
ficulties. 
to address this issue, we contracted an independent consultant 
to conduct a rigorous impact assessment and calculate a fair 
level of compensation. the complainants will be duly recom-
pensed for their loss of income. lessons learned from this case 
will be integrated into our due diligence framework to prevent 
similar cases occurring in the future.
community 
engagement
india, 2020
40   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
solid governance structures are the backbone of our work on sustain-
ability. in this section, we describe how sustainability is managed and 
governed at vestas and outline central activities in 2020.
sustainability governance at vestas
our sustainability strategy department is responsible for preparing 
and coordinating our sustainability strategy. in close collaboration 
with our functional areas, the department also drives and supports the 
execution of the strategy, operating as part of marcom, sustainability & 
public affairs in our ceo office. the department reports to the sustain-
ability committee multiple times a year and to our executive manage-
ment and board of directors at least once a year. to reflect the strategic 
importance of sustainability to our business, in 2020 the head of sus-
tainability, lisa malmquist ekstrand, also started reporting directly to 
the group president and ceo, henrik andersen, on a monthly basis.
to effectively implement sustainability across the organisation, we have 
appointed sustainability leads for each area of the business. in close col-
laboration with the sustainability strategy department, these individuals 
define action plans and resource allocation to support the achievement 
of our sustainability goals and targets within their business area. in addi-
tion, individual departments are responsible for specific global policies, 
procedures and overall guidance related to sustainability. health, safety 
and environment are managed by the global quality, safety & environ-
ment (qse) department, while corporate social responsibility and busi-
ness ethics are managed by the legal, risk & compliance department. to 
further embed sustainability within our governance structures, in 2020 
we appointed module sustainability leads (for example, for nacelles, 
blades, towers). these module leads will work to achieve reductions in 
carbon emissions and waste for specific turbine parts.
the vestas sustainability committee prioritises, oversees, and coor-
dinates cross-functional sustainability initiatives across the entire 
organisation, while ensuring we uphold our responsibilities as signato-
ries to the un global compact. it is essential that the committee repre-
sents vestas in its entirety, so each member speaks for their respective 
function or department. the following functions are represented in 
the committee: investor relations, compliance & csr, sustainability 
strategy, people & culture, service, sales, procurement, quality, safety 
& environment, and power solutions.
reporting to vestas’ executive management team, the committee held 
a total of nine meetings in 2020. this frequency will remain the same in 
2021. during 2020, a priority for the sustainability committee was the 
discussion and approval of key initiatives to deliver on the sustainability 
strategy. this focus will remain in place for 2021; and the sustainability 
committee, as well as the sustainability strategy department, will con-
tinue to oversee the execution of our sustainability strategy.
the board of directors of vestas wind systems a/s
vestas wind systems a/s’ board of directors (bod) consists of eight 
external members with broad international experience and four 
employee representatives. the external members are elected at the 
general meeting for one year at a time, while the employee repre-
sentatives are elected by and among the company’s employees. more 
information about the bod can be found in our annual report, which is 
accessible via our corporate website.
there are three bod committees overseeing our sustainability perfor-
mance: the audit committee, the nomination & compensation com-
mittee, and the technology & manufacturing committee. the audit 
committee evaluates our ethics and anti-corruption programme, in 
accordance with both the vestas code of conduct and the world eco-
nomic forum partnering against corruption initiative (paci). the cases 
governing sustainability
vestas’ sustainability governance
environment & climate change
employee wellbeing
responsible  
business practices 
health & safety
corporate social  
responsibility
sustainability committee 
(chaired by gsvp)
sustainability strategy 
department
implementation in all functional areas  
by appointed sustainability leads
executive management
board of directors
support, reporting 
and feedback on 
performance
filed in ethicsline, our whistle blower system, are reported to the audit 
committee. the nomination & compensation committee supports 
the bod in all staff-related topics, including diversity and inclusion. 
meanwhile, the technology & manufacturing committee evaluates our 
sustainability performance.
in 2020, the bod held four audit committee meetings, six nomination 
& compensation committee meetings, and four technology & manufac-
turing committee meetings.
codes of conduct
integrity is fundamental to all conduct at vestas. when faced with dif-
ficult decisions, integrity means making ethical choices that reflect 
our values of accountability, collaboration, simplicity and passion. as a 
global company of more than 25,000 employees operating in over 50 
countries, it is essential that our codes of conduct embody this com-
mitment and are supported by top management.
our employee code of conduct describes a set of rules and principles 
for how employees are expected to behave as part of their employment 
at vestas. it applies beyond local traditions, national legislations and 
cultures, setting a standard for all employees wherever they operate. 
all salaried employees joining vestas are required to sign the employee 
code of conduct.
our business partner code of conduct outlines the minimum require-
ments with which our business partners need to comply when conduct-
ing business with us. it applies to all business partners, and we have the 
right to terminate a business relationship if a supplier does not fulfil 
the compliance requirements set out in the code.
for more information about our policies, please visit:
 · the vestas employee code of conduct
 · the vestas decision tree
 · the vestas business partner code of conduct
 · the vestas business partner code of conduct guidelines
 · the vestas quality, health, safety and environmental policy
 · the vestas human rights policy
 · the vestas freedom of association policy
un global compact
the united nations global compact (ungc) is the world’s largest 
corporate sustainability initiative. it encourages businesses to align 
their operations and strategies with ten universal principles on human 
rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. at vestas, these 
principles serve as the basis for all our sustainability efforts; and while 
we first committed to the ungc in 2009, we annually report and pub-
lish our progress on implementing its principles.
in 2020, we reiterated our commitment to the ungc as our group 
president & ceo, henrik andersen, signed the ungc’s statement from 
business leaders for renewed global cooperation. as a signatory to 
this statement, we commit to continuously demonstrate ethical leader-
ship and good governance, invest in addressing systematic inequali-
ties, ensure accountability and transparency, promote equality, and 
respect human rights.
in the ungc nordic network, we have demonstrated our sustainability 
leadership through our participation in working groups on human rights 
and the sdgs. we use these working groups to promote stronger sus-
tainability efforts for businesses in their local contexts.
stakeholder engagement
as a global company, vestas interacts with many different stakeholder 
groups. these include customers, shareholders and investors, employ-
ees, policy makers, suppliers, non-governmental organisations, local 
communities and the media. we acknowledge that our sustainability 
performance is an important part of our relationship with these groups. 
by proactively engaging with stakeholders to understand their needs 
and concerns, we can feed this information back into our decision-
making process.
we categorise and prioritise stakeholders according to the degree to 
which they influence and are affected by our overall performance, as 
well as their interest in vestas. our stakeholder engagement ranges 
from forming partnerships to address common sustainability issues, 
to more passive activities such as the publication of the vestas annual 
report. we use the priority level assigned to each stakeholder to deter-
mine the most appropriate form of engagement.
transparency is fundamental to our engagement strategy and under-
pins our different engagement efforts. we publicly disclose key sus-
tainability information in the vestas sustainability report. additionally, 
we regularly lead more detailed dialogues with key stakeholders, as 
well as day-to-day contact with customers and annual events like our 
supplier forum.
management systems
the vestas management system enables us to put all external and 
internal sustainability requirements into practice systematically, effi-
ciently and effectively. it is a vital part of our efforts to embed sustaina-
bility across all our business processes. in order to further demonstrate 
our commitment to meeting the highest sustainability standards, our 
operations are built on global certificates for iso 9001 for quality, iso 
14001 for environment, and ohsas 18001 for health and safety.
memberships
to support our global leadership role in sustainable energy solutions, 
we pursue memberships with various international initiatives, bodies 
and partnerships. these include: 
 · global wind energy council (gwec)
 · windeurope
 · re100
 · world economic forum and its partnering against corruption 
initiative (paci)
 · p4g partnering for green growth and the global goals 2030
 · 40 national wind associations around the world
 · nordic business network for human rights
 · fight against facilitation payments initiative (fafpi)
42   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
sustainable, socially responsible and compliant tax practices are vital 
to our efforts to make a positive contribution to local communities and 
create a sustainable planet for future generations. by taking an ethi-
cal and transparent approach to tax, we help to sustain the group’s 
license to operate globally as well as locally. as part of this approach, 
we believe local operations must be proportionally matched by local 
tax contributions. additionally, external demands on tax transparency, 
as well as several corporate tax scandals, have highlighted the mate-
rial legislative and reputational risk stemming from unsustainable tax 
practices.
from a financial point of view, it is important we limit the risk of double 
taxation, apply withholding taxes correctly, and establish the right 
allocation of income between vestas companies in accordance with 
international regulations and principles. given our global footprint, we 
face scrutiny from tax authorities competing for the same tax revenue, 
which results in tax audits, double taxation, arbitration and lawsuits 
that put a significant financial burden on us.
our tax policy
in recent years, growing attention from policymakers and social actors 
have led to the development of guidelines and standards that enable 
businesses to take a firm and coherent position on sustainable tax 
practices. vestas welcomes and has closely followed the develop-
ment of these initiatives. in particular, we align our tax approach with 
the global reporting initiative (gri) 207 standard, developed by the 
global sustainability standards board (gssb). 
in 2020, we reworked the first vestas group tax policy (2018) to 
incorporate these new developments. a key element in the updated 
policy, which is available on our corporate website, was a structured 
approach inspired by the gri 207. the policy includes:
 · an overall commitment and approach to a responsible tax practice
 · a governance structure, by which the tax policy is subject to annual 
review and approval by the board of directors of vestas wind 
systems a/s
tax and sustainability
tax and sustainability
q: hjalte, how do you contribute to vestas’ 
sustainability strategy, sustainability in eve-
rything we do, in your day-to-day work?
a: in my role as vice president of group tax, i 
contribute to sustainability through the lens 
of a tax professional. in line with our overall 
approach to sustainability, we need to have a 
tax practice that can be consistently applied 
over time to the benefit of our business and 
the communities in which we operate. vestas 
is committed to long-term engagements, 
so we consider an aggressive tax planning 
approach to be short sighted. wind power is 
generally supported politically and by local 
communities, and bad tax practice could lead 
to severe reputational damage. we have 
defined good governance as a vital part of 
sustainability and this is very important to 
me, as executing on our corporate policies is a 
vital part of my everyday work.
q: what is the link between taxes  
and sustainability?
a: tax – including corporate tax payments – is 
key to unlocking sustainability commitments 
in broad terms, and enables the financing of 
each of the sdgs. professionally and person-
ally, it is important to me that vestas acts as 
a responsible corporate citizen. here, tax is 
a fairly tangible subject where we, as a com-
pany, can ensure a positive impact in both 
developed and developing countries by con-
tributing to communities.
q: what is most important in vestas’  
approach to responsible tax planning?
a: it is essential for us to put substance over 
form. we apply a strict policy of not engaging 
in or pursuing artificial structures. following 
this commitment, i work to enable the devel-
opment of our business. and it is always the 
commercial opportunities that must motivate 
our decisions and shape our structure – not 
the other way around.
q: finally, what is it that personally gets you 
out of bed in the morning?
a: it is a very strong motivation to go to work 
every morning knowing that each day of suc-
cessful execution on our strategy takes us 
one step closer to ensuring a better world 
for everyone. being able to contribute to that 
development by leading an area i am passion-
ate about is the cherry on top. i am proud to 
be part of vestas, and of the strong commit-
ments and progress we are making towards a 
sustainable future.
 “ it is essential for us to put 
substance over form. we 
apply a strict policy of not 
engaging in or pursuing 
artificial structures.”
hjalte volqvartz 
vice president, group tax
 · an explicit policy on tax planning, tax 
disputes and tax risk management
we acknowledge that transparency is crucial 
to ensure an accountable and sustainable 
approach to tax. consequently, we strive to 
communicate transparently on all our tax 
practices. we see the publication of relevant 
tax data as the natural next step in our sus-
tainable tax conduct going forward. subject 
to internal approval, we aim to publish a 
country-level tax report in 2022. following 
gri recommendations, we will use the coun-
try-by-country reporting (cbcr) submitted 
to tax authorities internationally as our start 
point, and will build on this to provide a more 
accurate picture of our tax payments.
being a project-based company, our country-
level revenue and tax payments will vary sub-
stantially year-over-year. the raw data from 
our cbcr is only a snapshot; it does not fully 
represent our business and we will therefore 
work to create a context for the interpretation 
of this data.
the global tax environment
with a global supply chain and manufactur-
ing facilities, and with wind turbines installed 
in more than 75 countries, we are impacted 
by developments in the international tax 
arena. we therefore support the harmonisa-
tion of international tax rules and collabora-
tion between governments to ensure a fair tax 
environment. when it comes to tax disputes, 
we seek to minimise any cash flow impact and 
engage in an open dialogue with tax authori-
ties. this process is often conducted on a 
bilateral basis, bringing all relevant parties to 
the table to reach a swift and fair settlement. 
however, occasionally tax authorities go 
beyond the legitimate remit of an audit in an 
effort to secure information. we do not sup-
port or commend such scattergun techniques, 
and always aim to protect business-critical 
data and details – both for ourselves and our 
clients.
like any other business, vestas takes local 
tax policies into account when making busi-
ness decisions. to account for the global 
supply chain and operations which charac-
terise our industry, we advocate for a level 
playing field for businesses operating in 
different markets. we engage with industry 
organisations and political stakeholders to 
ensure the state of our industry is known to 
decision-makers, and to promote the transi-
tion to renewable energy through improved 
framework conditions.
interview with hjalte volqvartz,  
vice president, group tax.
44   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
reporting on the un sdgs
sdg
goal
targets (indicators)
vestas’ contributions
ensure inclusive 
and equitable 
quality education 
and promote 
lifelong learning 
opportunities
for all
4.3: by 2030, ensure equal access for all 
women and men to affordable and
quality technical, vocational and tertiary 
education, including university (4.3.1 
participation rate of youth and adults
in formal and non-formal education and 
training in the previous 12 months, by sex)
• on our journey of community development in india, during 2020 
we continued to support an integrated education programme in 
five locations in the greater chennai region, where vestas india is 
headquartered. this programme aims to help 2,000 adolescents from 
low-income backgrounds complete their secondary education, while 
also promoting higher levels of employability and improving life skills.
• vestas has a strong focus on vocational training. in 2020, vestas 
provided an average of 62 hours of training per employee.
• vestas prioritises attracting and training new talent – for example 
through its international two-year graduate programme. in 2020, we 
onboarded 27 new graduates (42 percent women) across nine countries.
ensure access to
affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and 
modern energy
for all
7.1: by 2030, ensure universal access to 
affordable, reliable and modern energy 
services (7.1.1 proportion of population
with access to electricity; 7.1.2: proportion 
of population with primary reliance on  
clean fuels and technology)
• being a pioneer and leader in wind energy solutions for several 
decades, vestas has worked to make wind a competitive source of 
energy. on average, onshore wind nowadays demonstrates one of the 
lowest levelised costs of energy. this achievement is also supported by 
our global service business, improving our customers’ business cases 
and enabling a stable supply of renewable electricity.
7.2: by 2030, increase substantially the 
share of renewable energy in the global 
energy mix (7.2.1 renewable energy share 
in the total final energy consumption)
• vestas remains at the forefront of the transition towards affordable and 
clean energy – delivering between 30 and 50 units of energy back to 
society for every unit needed in the life cycle of a vestas wind turbine.
• by the end of 2020, the company had collaborated with its closest 
stakeholders to install more than 76,680 wind turbines in 83 
countries, adding up to a total capacity installed of 129 gw.
• in 2020, vestas sourced 100 percent of its electricity consumption 
from renewable sources.
promote sustained, 
inclusive and 
sustainable 
economic growth, 
full and productive 
employment and 
decent work for all
8.1: sustain per capita economic growth
in accordance with national circumstances 
and, in particular, at least 7 percent gross 
domestic product growth per annum in the 
least developed countries (8.1.1 annual 
growth rate of real gdp per capita)
• as our industry scales to meet the world’s sustainable energy demands, 
vestas has grown its revenue by 46 percent over the last two years. 
this growth creates even more jobs in our supply chain and affiliated 
industries.
8.2: achieve higher levels of economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrading and innovation, 
including through a focus on high-value 
added and labour-intensive sectors 
(8.2.1 annual growth rate of real gdp per 
employed person)
• adding renewable energy capacity increases the number of jobs faster 
than investing in fossil fuels, as renewables are more labour intensive 
and quicker to build than thermal power plants. per usd 10m of 
investment, renewable energy creates 75 jobs (direct and indirect), as 
compared to 27 from fossil fuels⁶.
• vestas continued to invest in future technology to help drive clean 
energy; in 2020, r&d costs amounted to more than eur 250m.
8.5: by 2030, achieve full and productive 
employment and decent work for all women 
and men, including for young people and 
persons with disabilities, and equal pay for 
work of equal value (8.5.1 average hourly 
earnings of female and male employees,
by occupation, age and persons with 
disabilities)
• aside from a competitive salary, working for vestas goes hand-in-hand 
with a range of other benefits (depending on local market conditions): 
pension, insurance plans, health insurance, subsidised lunch, gym 
access and work/life policies. our compensation packages are 
benchmarked against local market salaries for each position, ensuring 
equal and fair pay regardless of social identity.
8.7: take immediate and effective 
measures to eradicate forced labour, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking and 
secure the prohibition and  elimination  of 
the worst forms of child labour, including 
recruitment and use of child soldiers, and  
by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 
(8.7.1 proportion and number of children 
aged 5-17 years engaged in child labour, by 
sex and age)
• for the past decade, vestas has been working to develop and promote a 
unique approach to respecting human rights. in our human rights policy, 
we recognise our responsibility to respect human rights as set out in the 
united nations universal declaration of human rights, and according 
to the framework outlined in the un guiding principles on business 
and human rights. our business partner code of conduct outlines 
this expectation to all our stakeholders, and we publicly endorse and 
advocate for mandatory human rights due diligence. through our social 
due diligence process and supplier screening, we work to end forced 
labour, modern slavery and child labour as part of our ambition to be the 
most socially responsible company in the energy industry.
8.8: protect labour rights and promote 
safe and secure working environments for 
all workers, including migrant workers, in 
particular women migrants, and those in 
precarious employment (8.8.1 frequency 
rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational 
injuries, by sex and migrant status)
• in its freedom of association policy, vestas commits to respect 
employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
• vestas continues its work to reduce the total recordable injury rate – 
having achieved a 72 percent reduction since 2011, to a rate of 3.3 in 
2020. by 2025, we want to demonstrate a trir of 1.5; and by 2030, 
we want to reduce this rate to 0.6, becoming the safest workplace in the 
energy industry.
vestas’ contribution to the un sustainable development goals in 2020:
6)  sources: mckinsey & company, how a post-pandemic stimulus can both create jobs and help the climate, 05/2020, irena, global renewables outlook, 04/2020
ensure sustainable 
consumption
and production 
patterns
12.2: by 2030, achieve the sustainable 
management and efficient use of natural 
resources (12.2.1 material footprint, 
material footprint per capita, and material 
footprint per gdp)
• today, all vestas turbines are based on proven technology, using 
drivetrains that use a minimal amount of rare earth materials. the 
contribution of rare earth elements used in our turbine generator 
magnets, and in our tower magnets, contribute below 0.1 percent of 
total life cycle impacts (vestas 2014).
12.5: by 2030, substantially reduce waste 
generation through prevention, reduction, 
recycling and reuse (national recycling 
rate, tons of material recycled)
• vestas’ goal is to build zero-waste wind turbines by 2040. this means 
we are aiming to create a value chain that generates no waste materials. 
in 2020, we launched several initiatives to improve the end-of-life 
performance of wind turbine rotors.
12.6: encourage companies, especially 
large and transnational companies, 
to adopt sustainable practices and to 
integrate sustainability information into 
their reporting cycle (12.6.1 number 
of companies publishing sustainability 
reports)
• vestas values transparent communication with its stakeholders. in 
our annual sustainability report, we provide information about our 
sustainability strategy and performance.
take urgent action 
to combat climate 
change and its 
impacts
13.2: integrate climate change measures 
into national policies, strategies and 
planning (13.2.1 number of countries that 
have communicated the establishment or 
operationalisation of an integrated policy/
strategy/plan which increases their ability 
to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate 
change, and foster climate resilience 
and low greenhouse gas emissions 
development in a manner that does not 
threaten food production)
• with 129 gw of installed wind energy, vestas and its stakeholders 
have avoided the emission of 1.5 billion tonnes of co₂e since 1981.
• in response to the covid-19 pandemic, vestas has publicly advocated 
for putting carbon emission reductions at the heart of eu recovery 
programmes. this position was reiterated in the context of discussions 
on increasing the eu’s greenhouse gas reduction target to 55 percent 
by 2030.
strengthen 
the means of 
implementation 
and zrevitalize the 
global partnership 
for sustainable 
development
17.1: strengthen domestic resource 
mobilization, including through 
international support to developing 
countries, to improve  domestic  capacity 
for tax and other revenue collection (17.1.2 
proportion of domestic budget funded by 
domestic taxes)
• in 2020, vestas updated its group tax policy, taking the view that 
sustainable, socially responsible and compliant tax practices are vital 
to our efforts to make a positive contribution to local communities and 
create a sustainable planet for future generations. we support the 
harmonisation of international tax rules and collaboration between 
governments to ensure a fair tax environment.
17.17 encourage and promote effective 
public, public-private and civil society 
partnerships, building on the experience 
and resourcing strategies of partnerships 
(17.17.1 amount of united states dollars 
committed to public-private and civil 
society partnerships)
• vestas seeks a partnership approach to sustainable development. we 
are engaged in various supplier and customer collaborations to improve 
environmental performance in our operations and products, as well as 
to drive the sustainable energy transition.
• in 2020, we directly collaborated with 11 ngos globally as part of our 
work with community engagment where we operate.
46   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
eu taxonomy
with reference to article 8 of the regulation on the establishment of a 
framework to facilitate sustainable investment and amending regula-
tion (eu) 2019/2088, also known as the eu taxonomy, and based on 
the technical screening criteria currently available, it is vestas’ interpre-
tation that 100 percent of vestas wind systems a/s’ revenue, capex 
and opex is aligned with the eu taxonomy, as all of the company’s 
activities contribute substantially to objective no. 1, climate change 
mitigation, as enabling activities. as the deadline for the european 
commission to adopt a delegated act to specify the content and pres-
entation of the information to be disclosed is set for 1st june 2021, 
we have used the final report of the technical expert group (teg) on 
sustainable finance as reference document.
to secure that our 100 percent eu taxonomy compliant activities 
meet the do no significant harm (dnsh) criteria, we have commit-
ted to be a climate neutral company by 2030 and to reduce carbon 
emissions from our supply chain by 45 percent per mwh generated 
by 2030. in 2020, the targets for our own operations have been 
validated by the science based targets initiative (sbti, see page 
32). furthermore, our ambition to produce zero-waste wind turbines 
by 2040 addresses hotspots in our value chain and is based on our 
decade-long work on and publication of life cycle assessments 
(lcas) for our products. the company has made impacts and efforts 
transparent and integrated them into our research and development 
processes (see page 36). vestas® sitelca™ is a service that we offer 
our customers to environmentally optimise the full powerplant setup 
(see page 36).
with regards to the minimum safeguards on oecd guidelines for 
multinational enterprises and un guiding principles on business and 
human rights, vestas has implemented a series of policies and proce-
dures to ensure responsible business conduct (see pages 30 and 40). 
the company has a comprehensive social due diligence process to 
identify, asses, and prevent or mitigate potential adverse impacts on 
affected communities in the area of influence, where vestas is involved 
in the installation of wind power projects. in the event of a community 
concern or complaint, this can be raised through the project-level griev-
ance mechanisms (gm).  
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
environmental 
utilisation of resources
consumption of energy (gwh)
621
638
614
569
567
- of which renewable energy (gwh)
295
258
211
204
215
- of which renewable electricity (gwh)
261
227
178
175
186
renewable energy (%)
48
40
34
36
38
renewable electricity for own activities (%)
100
82
68
66
70
withdrawal of fresh water (1,000 m³)
421
473
470
454
428
waste 
volume of waste from own operations (1,000 t)
89
85
81
71
75
- of which collected for recycling (1,000 t)
46
43
42
39
37
recyclability rate of hub and blade²) (%)
41³)
42⁴)
//
//
//
carbon emissions
direct emissions of co₂e (scope 1) (1,000 t)
71
71
69
60
58
indirect emissions of co₂e (scope 2) (1,000 t)
2
38
61
70
66
indirect emissions of co₂e from the supply chain (scope 3)²) (million t)
9.79
6.90
//
//
//
indirect emissions of co₂e from the supply chain (scope 3)²), ⁵) (kg per  
mwh generated)
6.49
6.45
//
//
//
products
expected co₂e avoided over the lifetime of the mw produced and 
shipped during the period (million t)
493
322
275
317
281
annual co₂e avoided by the total aggregated installed fleet (million t)
186
154⁶)
134
120
106
social
safety
total recordable injuries (number)
185
213
210
243
303
- of which lost time injuries (number)
65
67
80
92
82
- of which fatal injuries (number)
0
1
0
1
0
total recordable injuries per million working hours (trir)
3.3
3.9
4.0
5.3
6.9
lost time injuries per million working hours (ltir)
1.2
1.2
1.5
2.0
1.9
employees
average number of employees (ftes)
26,121
24,964
24,221
22,504
21,625
employees at the end of the period (ftes)
29,378
25,542
24,648
23,303
21,824
diversity and inclusion
women in the board⁷) and executive management at the end of the period (%)
27
23
15
23
23
women in leadership positions⁸) at the end of the period (%)
19
19
19
19
19
human rights
community grievances²) (number)
20
10
//
//
//
community beneficiaries²) (number)
14,770
6,093
//
//
//
social due diligence on projects in scope²) (%)
78
32
//
//
//
governance
whistle-blower system
ethicsline cases⁹) (number)
287
224
165
105
103
- of which substantiated (number)
54
44
42
31
19
- of which unsubstantiated (number)
199
145
92
74
68
1)  for definitions and accounting policies for the sustainability key figures, see the notes on page 50. comments to the indicators can be found in the respective reporting section in this 
report. 
2)  data only available from 2019 onwards.
3)  the decrease from 2019 to 2020 is attributable to a design change in 2020 that has optimised the metal content in the turbine hub after which the blade mass corresponds to a bigger 
share of the total rotor mass. 
4)  the 2019 baseline has been updated from 44 percent to 42 percent recyclability due to adjustments in the bill of materials.
5)  this covers 70 percent of the scope 3 emissions.
6)  in the vestas annual report and sustainability report 2019, this number was 151 million tonnes saved. since then, the fleet average capacity factor used has been corrected, and the 
number adjusted accordingly.
7)  only board members elected by the general meeting are included.
8)  employees in leadership positions comprise managers, specialists, project managers, and above.
9)  the cases not registered here as substantiated or unsubstantiated are still under investigation at the end of the year.
sustainability key figures¹)
48   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
notes to sustainability key figures
basis for preparation of the statement
general reporting standards
the below description of accounting policies refers to the environmen-
tal, social, and governance indicators presented on page 49.
all vestas’ wholly owned companies are covered by the report. newly 
established companies are included from the time of production start, 
and companies are excluded from the reporting from the time when 
they leave vestas’ control. 
acquired companies are included from the time when coming under 
vestas’ control. for the offshore business in the joint venture, mhi 
vestas offshore wind, however, of which vestas took full ownership on 
14 december 2020, data was not included in the 2020 reporting, as 
the impact was insignificant. 
from 2021 and onwards, data from the offshore business will be 
included in the sustainability key figures. the existing sustainability 
strategy targets will be maintained and include offshore performance, 
with the adjustment that the baseline for scope 3 carbon emissions will 
have to be recalculated.
defining materiality
vestas bases its materiality assessment on an analysis of significant 
economic, environmental, and social impacts of the company’s activi-
ties. the analysis is based on internal priorities as well as experience 
from dialogue with and direct involvement of customers, investors, 
policy makers, employees, and media. the result of the analysis is 
incorporated in the vestas sustainability report, which is published on 
an annual basis.
change in accounting policies
the “sustainability key figures” have been revised after the material-
ity assessment conducted in 2020. indicators for environmental 
accidents, breaches of internal inspection conditions, and absence 
due to illness are no longer considered material as numbers are low 
and performance is good. indicators for the environmental part of the 
sustainability strategy are included in the form of recyclability rate 
of hub and blade, and indirect emissions of co₂e from the value chain 
(scope 3, absolute value as well as relative to mwh generated). with 
vestas’ commitment to lead the way in social responsibility in the 
renewables industry, as communicated in september 2020, indicators 
for human rights issues have been included in the form of community 
grievances, community beneficiaries, and social due diligence on 
projects in scope. to document the impact of vestas’ products, annual 
co₂e avoided by the installed fleet is included. the status of the key 
figures is monitored closely and for relevant key indicators, specific 
targets have been defined. strategic kpis and targets can be found on 
page 18.
environmental 
energy consumption, water withdrawal, waste generation, and carbon 
emissions are reported for the accounting period on the basis of sig-
nificance. all production facilities are included as well as larger offices, 
warehouses, and other facilities, ensuring a comprehensive and suffi-
cient statement of these environmental aspects. all data are registered 
in vestas’ hse system.
utilisation of resources
electricity, gas, and district heating are measured on the basis of quan-
tities consumed according to direct meter readings per site including 
related administration. consumption of electricity comprises electricity 
purchased externally. oil for heating is stated on the basis of external 
purchases and meter readings at the end of the reporting period. fuel 
for internal transportation, including for cars owned by the company or 
fuel for employees’ benefit cars for which the company pays the fuel per 
credit card as well as fuel used for internal transport on project sites 
and production such as forklifts, has been recognised on the basis of 
supplier statements. electricity from renewable energy sources is cal-
culated on the basis of supplier statements. only 100 percent renew-
able electricity is counted as renewable electricity. 
renewable energy is energy generated from natural resources, which 
are all naturally replenished – such as wind, sunlight, water, biomass, 
and geothermal heat. nuclear power is not considered to be renewable 
energy. 
the withdrawal of water is stated as measured withdrawal of fresh 
water on the basis of supplier statements and meter readings. 
waste
volume of waste is stated on the basis of weight slips received from 
the waste recipients for deliveries, apart from a few types of waste and 
non-significant volumes which are estimated on the basis of subscrip-
tion arrangement and load. waste disposal method is based on sup-
plier statements.
recyclability rate of hub and blade is calculated as the recyclable share 
of the total rotor (i.e. hub and blade) mass. the measure is based upon 
the material composition of all turbine types that were produced and 
shipped in the reporting year.  recyclability rates of different materials 
and component types are quantified and estimated based upon infor-
mation from life cycle assessment (lca) reports of each type of turbine 
shipped in the year, which can be found on our corporate website.  
carbon emissions
carbon emissions are measured using the carbon dioxide equivalent 
(co₂e) to include relevant greenhouse gasses according to the green-
house gas protocol. a distinction is made between scope 1, 2, and 3 
emissions, as also defined by the greenhouse gas protocol. 
scope 1: direct emissions of co₂e are calculated on the basis of deter-
mined amounts of fuel for own transport and the direct consumption 
of oil and gas, with the usage of standard factors published by the uk 
department for environment, food & rural affairs (2020). 
scope 2: scope 2 covers emissions released in connection with the 
consumption of purchased electricity, steam, heat, and cooling, of which 
steam and cooling are not used by vestas. indirect emissions of co₂e 
from consumption of electricity outside europe are calculated using 
national grid emission factors published by the international energy 
agency (2020).  indirect co₂e emissions from consumption of electric-
ity in europe are calculated with residual mix emission factors from the 
association of issuing bodies (2018). indirect co₂e emissions from 
district heating are calculated using the emission factor from the uk 
department for environment, food & rural affairs (2020). 
scope 3: indirect emissions of co₂e from the value chain are reported 
based on the greenhouse gas protocol which divides the scope 3 
inventory into 15 subcategories. the largest part of the emissions is 
in the category ‘purchased goods and services’, where co₂e emissions 
from materials going into products are calculated based on lcas fol-
lowing iso 14040 & 14044, publicly available at vestas.com. the 
measure is based upon the material composition of all turbine types 
that were produced and shipped in the reporting year. co₂e emission 
data of different materials and component types are quantified and 
estimated based upon information from lca reports on each type of 
wind turbine shipped in the year. similarly, the co₂e emissions of all 
produced and shipped turbines in the reporting year are derived from 
the lca reports, accounting for specific material quantities purchased. 
lca reports can be found on our corporate website. other purchased 
goods and services as well as capital goods and waste generated in 
operations are estimated based on spend using defra factors for indi-
rect emissions from the supply chain (2011). fuel- and energy-related 
activities are calculated using defra factors for emissions related to 
the production of fuel and energy. co₂ emissions from upstream trans-
portation are estimated for global transportation based on the lca 
reports for weight and distance of components transported and defra 
carbon emissions factors. business travel emissions are provided by 
the travel agency. employee commuting is estimated based on average 
number of employees with the usage of standard factors published by 
the uk department for environment, food & rural affairs (2020). end-
of-life treatment of sold products is estimated based upon material 
composition of all produced and shipped wind turbines in the reporting 
year and defra emission factors for waste treatment.  vestas’ 50 per-
cent share of the scope 1 & 2 emissions in the joint venture mitsubishi 
vestas offshore wind has been included in vestas’ scope 3 emissions. 
the subcategories c8-11 and c13-c14 are not relevant for vestas, as 
there are no greenhouse gas emissions within these categories.
in relation to the target to reduce carbon emissions in the value chain, 
indirect emissions of co₂e from the value chain per mwh generated 
include 70 percent of the scope 3 emissions. the amount of mwh 
generated is based on the number and type of wind turbines produced 
and shipped in the financial year along with contracted values for wind 
turbine capacity factor and lifetime.
products
co₂e avoided is to be understood as the volume of emissions, which is 
avoided by using the wind turbines as source, compared the average 
level of co₂e impact involved in electricity generation. 
expected co₂e avoided over the lifetime of the mw  produced and 
shipped  during the period is calculated on the basis of the wind tur-
bines (mw) produced and shipped during the reporting period, a capac-
ity factor of 34 percent in 2020, an expected lifetime of 20 years, and 
the latest updated standard factor of global average carbon emissions 
for electricity from the international energy agency (2019), at present 
485 grams of co₂e per kwh.
annual co₂e avoided by the total aggregated installed fleet is calcu-
lated on the basis of the total annual installed vestas wind turbines 
(mw) and global average co₂e emissions avoided per year of opera-
tion. the total co₂e avoided is an aggregation of each year since 1981, 
accounting for decommissioned wind turbines, based on an estimate of 
the average lifetime of a wind turbine.
social 
safety
the occupational safety data in the sustainability key figures are 
reported for all activities in vestas. lost time injuries (ltis) of all 
employees are stated on the basis of registration in vestas’ incident 
management system of occupational incidents that have caused 
at least one workday of absence after the day of the injury, and the 
number includes fatalities. total recordable injuries (tri) include ltis, 
restricted work injuries, and medical treatment injuries. injuries and 
working hours for externally employed workers under vestas’ supervi-
sion are included in both measures. 
the incidence of injuries is defined as the number of injuries per one 
million working hours. the number of working hours is measured on 
the basis of daily timecards registered in the payroll system for hourly-
paid employees, and prescribed working hours for salaried employees 
excluding e.g. holidays, absence due to illness and maternity leave. for 
externally employed workers under vestas’ supervision, the injuries 
are reported by vestas, and working hours are reported by the external 
suppliers. 
employees, diversity, and inclusion
the number of employees is calculated as the number of full-time 
equivalents (fte) with a direct contract with vestas registered in 
vestas’ hr system. 
employee indicators (the share of women in the board of directors, 
executive management, and leadership positions) are calculated based 
on headcounts at end of the reporting period. employee information is 
determined on the basis of extracts from the company’s ordinary regis-
tration systems with specification of gender and management level by 
career track (people leaders, specialists, project managers). 
human rights
vestas registers and handles community concerns or complaints 
caused by vestas or its contractors in the vestas incident management 
system (ims). the measure “community grievances” covers the total 
number of community complaints registered in ims in the reporting 
year in connection with a wind farm project and associated facilities, a 
vestas factory, or a r&d centre. 
“community beneficiaries” are individuals that have benefitted directly,  
financially or by way of upgraded skills, from vestas’ community devel-
opment initiatives implemented during the reporting period in connec-
tion to a wind farm project and associated facilities, a vestas factory, 
or a r&d centre. where a household is a beneficiary, vestas calculates 
the household size based on the country average defined by the un 
department of economic and social affairs (un 2017). community 
development initiatives are identified in collaboration with local stake-
holders, including community members, and centred around the un 
sdgs with special focus on the six primary sdgs selected by vestas.
the measure “due diligence on projects in scope” reflects the share of 
wind power projects in scope, which have materialised as firm orders 
during the reporting period, and on which the social due diligence 
(sdd) process has been applied. the wind farm projects in scope for 
vestas’ sdd are 1) all engineering, procurement and construction 
(epc) projects in emerging markets, 2) all supply-and-installation 
projects of 100 mw or above in emerging markets, and 3) projects in 
oecd countries with a risk rating of ‘extreme’ or ‘high’ according to the 
verisk maplecroft ‘indigenous people” risk index on risks related to  
indigenous people’s lands, territories or livelihoods under threat (via a 
risk mapping performed each year in january). in this context, ‘emerg-
ing markets’ are non-oecd, high-income countries, as defined by oecd. 
governance
whistle-blower system
all reports made to the ethicsline whistle-blower hotline are investi-
gated thoroughly, with the purpose of identifying whether a violation 
of the code of conduct has taken place. upon the completion of the 
investigation, cases are classified as either substantiated or unsub-
stantiated. at the end of the reporting year, the total number of whistle-
blower cases are calculated.
50   the vestas sustainability report 2020
r e po rti ng
str at egy
co nt e nt s
i nt ro du ct io n
what did you think of this report?
do you have questions?
reach out to us on: vestassustainability@vestas.com
do you want to join us?
discover our advertised employment  
positions on our corporate website.
stay connected:
want to get involved and stay up to date?
@vestas
@vestas
@vestas
/vestas
/vestas
 “ i would like to thank every 
single employee at vestas 
for their hard work in 2020. 
our great progress was 
only possible through the 
dedication and passion which 
you bring to work each day.”
henrik andersen
group president & ceo
 vestas wind systems a/s 
hedeager 42 . 8200 aarhus n . denmark 
tel: +45 9730 0000 . fax: +45 9730 0001
vestas@ vestas.com
vestas.com
© vestas 2020
this document was created by  vestas wind systems a/s and contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information. all rights reserved. no part of the document may be reproduced 
or copied in any form or by any means such as graphic, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, taping or information storage and retrieval systems, without the prior written permission of  vestas 
wind systems a/s. all specifications are for information only and are subject to change without notice.  vestas does not make any representations or extend any warranties, expressed or implied, as to the 
adequacy or accuracy of this information.
52   the vestas sustainability report 2020
