company reg. no. 20045078
growing as 
a leader in peptide 
therapeutics
zealand pharma 
corporate responsibility  
report 2020
contents
corporate responsibility report 2020
changing lives 
3
transforming peptides 
4
our business model 
5
focus on corporate responsibility 
6
our people 
7
quality 
10
patients 
11
environment 
13
ethics 
14
about this report
this statutory report on corporate 
social and environmental responsi-
bility is for the financial year 2020, cf. 
section 99a and 99b of the danish 
financial statements act. this report 
is a supplement to the management’s 
review in the annual report 2020 
covering the period january 1 to 
december 31, 2020.
2
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
contents
changing lives
we work every day with patient 
communities and thought leaders 
to change the lives of people with 
severe medical conditions.
our ambition is to be  
a world leader in treating 
specialty metabolic and 
gastrointestinal  diseases. 
we intend to deliver best 
in-class treatment options that 
meet patient medical needs and ease the 
burden on the health care system.
we are passionate 
about changing 
the lives of people 
with severe medical 
conditions through 
targeted development of 
next generation peptide 
therapeutics.
there are over 300 million people living with 
one or more of over 6,000 identified rare 
diseases around the world1, each supported 
by family, friends and a team of 
caregivers that make up the rare 
disease community. many of these 
diseases are life threatening, with 
no available therapy to help these 
patient groups
peptides have proven 
to be effective drugs 
in a number of 
different diseases, with 
significant untapped 
potential across many 
therapy areas.²
sdg 3: ensure healthy 
lives and promote well-
being for all at all ages
find out more about zealand at  
zealandpharma.com/csr
¹  inserm (institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale). (2019, october 24). 
rare diseases: over 300 million patients affected worldwide. sciencedaily.
2   j. lau and m. dunn, therapeutic peptides: historical perspectives, current development 
trends, and future directions. bioorganic & medicinal chemistry, version 26, issue 10,  
1 june 2018, p. 2700-2707.
3
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
changing lives
transforming 
peptides
we leverage our 20 years of 
experience discovering and 
developing peptide drugs to
transform peptide projects into next 
generation therapeutics.
20+ years in biotech
founded 1998 in copenhagen, 
locations in boston and new york
leading peptide platform
a world leading peptide platform, 
with two medicines on the market
four potential launches  
in four years 
accelerating late stage programs 
to launch new products into 
major markets beginning in 2021
experienced team
329 employees of which  
53% are in r&d 
discovering and optimizing peptides  
to create new medicines
for more than twenty years, zealand has been success-
fully optimizing peptide hormones to confer the neces-
sary properties to be a safe and effective drug.
peptides represent a growing therapeutic modality  
with over 60 approved and marketed peptide drugs  
and many more in clinical development. zealand uses 
its unique in depth understanding of peptide chemistry 
and biology to focus the substitution process on key 
amino acids to remove the weak points that result in 
poor solubility, stability or activity, and thus create  
new drug candidates.
we have four late stage programs with the potential to 
launch into major markets over four years beginning in 
2021. three of these programs are based on dasigluca-
gon, a stable glucagon analog: a new drug application 
was submitted in 2020 for treatment of severe hypo-
glycemia in diabetes; ongoing phase 3 for treatment of 
the rare pediatric condition, congenital hyperinsulinism;  
and phase 3 planned for use in bi-hormonal fully 
automated pump therapy for management of type 1 
diabetes. our fourth late stage program is ongoing 
phase 3 with glepaglutide, a long-acting glp-2 analog 
for treatment of short bowel syndrome. our early 
development pipeline includes a glp-1/ glp-2 agonist 
for treatment of short bowel syndrome in phase 1, two 
clinical programs partnered with boehringer ingelheim, 
and one pre-clinical program partnered with alexion 
pharmaceuticals. we continue to leverage our estab-
lished peptide platform, which has already led to two 
approved medicines and provides multiple opportuni-
ties for near-term pipeline expansion.
zealand pharma in brief
find out more about zealand at  
zealandpharma.com/about-us
4
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
transforming peptides
our business 
model
to deliver best-in-class treatment 
options that meet patient needs 
and ease burden on the health care 
system, we utilize a business model 
with two approaches.
find out more about zealand at  
zealandpharma.com/strategy
first, we aim to retain full ownership and control of 
product candidates all the way to market in selected 
geographies. alternatively, we may progress clinical 
development ourselves to the point at which it makes 
business sense to engage in partnerships that expand 
the opportunity and probability of success by providing 
additional resources and investment.
our agile organization engages with partners across 
the value chain, such as academic and scientific 
institutions, leading contract research organizations 
(cros) and contract manufacturing organizations 
(cmos), and distribution partners.
upon completion of the assets of valeritas inc we  
acquired an established sales force and infrastructure 
to assist with our first launch. our new sales force 
in the united states follows our aim of retaining full 
control of our current and future products. 
optimizing 
execution across 
the value chain
internal drug development
drug development in strategic partnerships
approved 
medicines to 
patients
early and late 
stage drug 
development
contract research 
organizations 
(cros)
academic and 
scientific institutions
contract 
manufacturing 
organizations (cmos)
distribution 
partners
peptide research 
platform
optimizing value through internal drug development and partnerships
maintaining full 
control and value 
potential
expanding 
the innovation 
platform
5
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
our business model
focus on 
corporate 
responsibility
as we work toward realizing  
our ambition of becoming a fully 
integrated biotech that improves 
care for patients and maximizes 
value for our shareholders,  
we recognize the importance  
of protecting the world around us 
and understanding our role  
with a broader audience. 
we believe in operating as a 
responsible company that serves 
broader economic, societal, and 
environmental interests.
reporting framework
we adhere to requirements of the danish 
financial statements act, and comply 
with relevant laws, standards and guide-
lines for reporting on corporate social 
responsibility activities. we respectfully 
adhere to the un guiding principles on 
business and human rights. in last year’s 
report, we incorporated selected un 
sustainable development goals that are 
aligned with our business impact and 
connect zealand’s efforts with those 
of other companies to address global 
challenges.
engaging our organization
to ensure the the importance of en-
vironmental, social and governance 
responsibility is understood and acted 
upon throughout our organization, we 
established a csr steering committee 
comprised of senior representatives in 
the company. this committee will work 
to facilitate initiatives that increase our 
contributions in corporate responsibili-
ty, and to improve transparency on the 
activities.
scope of our reporting
in 2020, with the acquisition of the 
valeritas assets, zealand acquired one 
new site in marlborough massachu-
setts which together with our boston 
and new york city sites in the united 
states and our site in soborg, denmark 
represent our locations across the world. 
where possible we have included them 
in our reporting.
we aim to do this by:
these are our guiding principles for corporate responsibility, upon which 
we have formulated our policies specified throughout this report.
enabling health, 
well-being, and 
competency 
development of our 
employees, while 
ensuring a safe 
workplace
focusing 
collaboration with 
advocacy groups 
to consolidate 
relations and 
obtain better 
treatment options 
for patients
conducting 
business according 
to the highest 
ethical standards
working actively 
and systematically 
to minimize our 
impact on the 
environment and 
climate
communicating our 
csr policy openly 
and honestly to 
external collaboration 
partners, including 
our suppliers and 
starting to engage 
them on their csr 
polices and how we 
can work together.   
6
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
focus on corporate responsibility
our people
at zealand, employees are our most 
important resource. we aspire to 
attract, develop and retain the best 
people and to be a company where 
every employee thrives.
highly qualified and motivated employees are a pre-
requisite for achieving the ambitious zealand busi-
ness goals. a diverse workforce enhances innovation 
and increases our ability to work cross-culturally. 
ensuring every employee has opportunity to improve 
upon their existing strengths while developing skills 
is critical to attracting and retaining qualified and 
engaged employees.
we strive to ensure our employees’ well-being and 
have a number of policies in place to promote phys-
ical and psychosocial health. we work systematically 
to maintain a safe and healthy work environment.
we have a number of committees, including a works 
council, a covid response committee and an 
occupational safety and health committee (osha 
committee), on which both management and em-
ployees are represented and regularly discuss matters 
related to our work environment. employees are also 
represented with four seats on the company’s board 
of directors. 
labor unions currently representing our employees 
include hk it, medie & industri hovedstaden. zealand 
negotiates a collective agreement in good faith every 
three years. the next negotiation is scheduled for 
2023.
risk and mitigation
zealand is not a high-risk company regarding safety,  
yet we do work systematically to maintain a safe and  
healthy work environment. numerous procedures are  
in place, including a manual describing our policies  
on occupational safety and health (osha). all zealand 
employees are trained in the standard safety protocol, 
47.1
the average age of zealand 
employees at the end of 2020 
(2019: 46.1)
46%
portion of employees with  
a nationality other than danish  
at the end of 2020 (2019: 17%)
67%
in corporate management 
the number of non-danish 
nationalities was 67% at the end 
of 2020 (2019: 60%)
53%
employees working in r&d at the 
end of 2020 (2019: 85%)
zealand pharma employees in brief
sdg 10: reduce 
inequality within and 
among countries
sdg 3: ensure healthy 
lives and promote well-
being for all at all ages
sdg 5: achieve gender 
equality and empower 
all women and girls
7
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
our people
42
2020
58
%
58
2019
42
100
2020
0
%
0
2019
100
64
2020
36
%
33
2019
67
whereby they are given the tools to manage their own 
occupational safety. 
workplace evaluations (arbejdspladsvurderinger, 
apv) are conducted regularly. risk assessments are 
reviewed quarterly, and zealand’s osha committee 
conducts surveys on a regular basis. a near-accident 
reporting initiative is maintained to build on zealand’s 
strong safety track record and safeguard against po-
tential future accidents.
2020 highlights
in 2020, we finalized our relocation within denmark 
into larger and more modern facilities. this was 
driven by the need for additional space to support 
our growing employee base. also, as part of the 
acquisition made in 2020, our us operations grew 
substantively with the addition of a sales force which 
supports our commercial launch strategy for our fully 
owned products. 
diversity
we strive to achieve equal representation of both 
genders at all management levels, from the board of 
directors to the heads of departments. zealand has 
an even distribution of managers of both genders and 
slightly more women than men across the  
organization in general. overall zealand is made up 
of 58% females in 2020 (2019: 58%).
as of december 31, 2020, the board of directors 
consisted of four women and seven men, of whom 
two woman and two men were elected at the annual 
general meeting in 2020, giving a female representa-
tion of 36% (2019: 33%).
diversity - commitment
at zealand pharma, we aspire to be bold in our 
commitment to belonging, inclusion and growth 
(big) and embed big into the very fabric of our 
organization. this includes fostering the right cul-
ture, through inclusive leadership and working as 
one team, that ensures everyone is empowered, 
respected, supported and valued. we will continue to 
proactively attract, recruit, retain and promote diverse 
team members at every level of our organization. 
this commitment to big will serve as key enabler of 
our innovation, performance and success.
privacy and data protection
we have developed a data protection impact as-
sessment covering all clinical trials conducted from 
2018 forward. all employees have received training in 
general procedures and data retention guidelines as 
well as the information security procedures.
zealand pharma
corporate management
board of directors
 men  
 women
8
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
diversity
•  zealand remains committed to providing equal opportunities for  
women and men at all management levels. in addition zealand launched 
its big initiative in the aftermath of the racial tensions in the us and 
engaged with a black-owned consultancy to support diversity, equalitive 
and inclusion.
•  zealand will continue to focus on diversity of employees at all levels of 
the organization and provide equal opportunities for women and men,  
at all management levels.
•  we will continue to encourage female candidates from and those from 
diverse backgrounds to take on managerial tasks.
engagement
•  annual engagement survey to help leaders and employees continuously 
improve the working environment. the response rate was 82.6%  
(323 respondents; 2020). 91.5% of responses were favorable. in 2019  
the response rate was 89% (for 160 respondents) and 90% of responses  
were favourable.
•  maintain employee engagement as reflected in the annual engagement 
survey scores.
personal and organizational  
competency development
•  activities conducted to continue focus on the zealand dna, which  
is a set of common values uniting all employees in their daily work.  
•  all management levels have received leadership training.
•  leadership training will continue.
•  we will focus on competency development and improve employability 
with the following objectives:
•  zealand’s ability to execute the business strategy
•  employees’ opportunity to get motivating tasks
•  enhance employees’ employability 
•  workshops based on the trends from the competency development 
plans will be conducted with the objectives to strengthen skills and  
improve the ability to work effectively across organizational borders.
employee health and well-being
•  workshops to avoid stress among employees were conducted.
•  employee turnover was 9.1% in 2020 (2019: 12% for denmark).
•  abscence rate was 1.9% in 2020 for denmark and prior to this we  
were not able to record this due to a change in internal systems.
•  during the covid-19 lock down in denmark all employees were offered 
home office equipment’s such as monitors, desks and chairs and where 
possible they were permitted to work from home in line with guidence.
•  voluntary morning workout sessions was introduced to employees
•  we aim for an absence rate at the same level, or lower, as in previous 
years.
•  zealand will continue to work on maintaining a healthy and motivating 
working environment. it will re-introduce the work place gym and other 
activites similar to that as soon as the present covid-19 restrictions are 
removed.
safety
•  7 near accidents were reported under our near accident reporting  
initiative (2019: 3).
•  no “obligated to notify” accidents were reported.
•  zealand had no significant injuries in 2020 (2019: 0), as measured  
by days off due to work-related injury.
•  we strive to ensure that all accidents are reported, and that employee 
safety is maintained or improved.
enviroment
•  focus on environmental production
•  electric charging for electronic cars
•  looking at metrics and policies that we can use with our vendors  
and suppliers to assist in measuring our carbon footprint
9
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
quality
zealand’s quality policy describes 
compliance with rigorous 
internationally recognized standards 
and guidelines at all stages of 
research and development, to ensure 
that we do not endanger patients 
safety, quality or efficacy. 
zealand’s development area outsources good  
practice (gxp) activities to qualified and approved 
vendors, where the sponsor responsibilities remain  
at zealand. oversight of the activities is carried out  
to ensure compliance with the requirements of,  
for example, good laboratory practice (glp),  
good manufacturing practice (gmp), good clinical 
practice (gcp), good pharmacovigilance practice 
(gvp), and others. 
we work in close partnerships with vendors, and 
when evaluating these partners we focus both on 
business ethics, as well as capability and capacity  
of the service. elements in the assessment include 
quality audits, supplier management assessment,  
and financial stability.
zealand’s pharmaceutical quality system for  
development activities is described in our quality 
manual, which also defines our quality policy.  
ongoing evaluation of our quality system is  
performed continuously.
risk and mitigation
our reliance on external partners to perform gxp  
activities poses risk that partners do not follow  
requirements of pharmaceutical quality standards.  
such noncompliance would in turn jeopardize  
patient safety, quality and efficacy of our medicines. 
our vendor oversight program is intended to mitigate 
this risk through thorough and ongoing assessment 
of all gxp vendors.
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
quality assurance 
and  
vendor 
management
•  zealand progressed quality systems towards readiness 
to ensure processes are in place deliver to the market 
once regulatory approval is obtained
•  zealand obtained a favorable authority review in 
own organization and key vendor of our clinical and 
commercial processes
•  zealand continued to strengthen the vendor over-
sight with formal steering meetings in place at all key 
vendors and successfully conducted 24 audits
•  zealand continued work in the covid-19 situation, 
balancing the oversight according to risk manage-
ment princples guidiance
•  zealand will prepare for launch of dasiglucagon 
auto-injector and pre-filled syringe once regula-
tory approval is obtained
•  zealand will continue to improve and increas-
ingly migrate towards the use of electronic 
systems for key clinical and cmc activities
•  zealand will continue the oversight of out-
sourced activities based on our quality risk 
management principles
•  zealand will mature and harmonize the quality 
system to cover medical devices as well as 
pharmaceutical products
10
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
quality
patients
we work every day with patient 
communities and thought leaders 
to change the lives of people with 
severe medical needs.
advocacy groups and patient organizations
type of collaboration
short bowel 
syndrome
the oley foundation, u.s.
patient insights, partnering in clinical development, and  
educational initiatives in short bowel syndrome. part of the  
oley corporate partnership program
association for crohn’s and colitis, denmark
membership
association for users of home parenteral 
nutrition, denmark
educational grant to support initiatives for home parenteral  
nutrition consumers
diabetes
juvenile diabetes research foundation
patient insights and general diabetes collaboration
diatribe, u.s.
collaboration and patient journey insight
t1d exchange, u.s.
patient insights on diabetes management, educational and  
scientific publications
american diabetes association, u.s.
collaboration and support of furthering the cause to drive  
awareness of diabetes and its complications
rare diseases
nord – national organization of rare 
diseases, u.s. 
corporate council membership, rare disease advocacy
chi – congenital hyperinsulism 
 international
patient insights, collaboration on global patient registry and global 
development program, generally supporting the chi community
risk and mitigation
the safety and efficacy of our therapeutics is the 
foremost concern regarding patients. such risk is 
addressed throughout the development process  
and within the rules and guidance provided by  
regulatory entities.
passionate about changing lives
we work to create better lives for patients through collaborations with advocacy groups and patient organiza-
tions. we demonstrate our long-term commitment to patients and caregivers by consolidating relations and 
obtaining better treatment options. 
sdg 17: strengthen the 
means of implementation 
and revitalize the 
global partnership for 
sustainable development
11
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
patients
2020 highlights
zealand indirectly supports the improvement of man-
agement and care for short bowel syndrome patients 
by supporting the learn intestinal failure tele-echo 
clinic (lift-echo) initiative. it is an online community 
of medical professionals dedicated to supporting the 
treatment and management of patients with intestinal 
failure. lift-echo utilizes the echo® model, which 
links specialist teams at academic ‘hubs’ with primary 
care clinicians or other non-specialists in local  
 
communities. during teleecho clinics, non-specialist 
clinicians from multiple sites can present patient cases 
to the specialist teams and to each other, discuss 
developments relating to their patients, and together 
determine the best course of treatment.
zealand acquired and established a new organization 
and operations in the united states which will foster  
a medical and patient-community network.
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
patients focus
•  new organization and operations  
in the united states
•  continue to improve the operations in the united 
states to prepare for introducing new treatments 
in the coming years
•  continue to drive patient-centric development, 
including patient advocacy as a partner in the 
clinical development, in dialogue with regulatory 
bodies as well as in disease educational initiatives.
•  continue to expand patient-centric education 
initiatives.
12
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
environment
zealand’s environmental policy 
outlines our commitment to 
minimizing our impact on the 
environment and climate through 
responsible consumption and 
production.
by conducting business in a safe and environmentally 
friendly manner, we aim to reduce our impact on the 
environment and climate as far as possible. we have 
policies and procedures to encourage recycling,  
efficient use of electricity and heating, and respons-
ible travel.
2020 highlights
in 2020, we finalized the relocation to the new 
facilities in denmark. the move will accommodate 
zealand’s continued workforce growth, which has 
been steadily increasing to support the number of 
clinical development programs as well as the longer-
term strategic initiative for introducing commercial 
support. operations will be able to expand within 
7,100 square meters of newly renovated offices and 
laboratories, which is approximately 34% more area 
than the old facility. 
the relocation has enabled us to take actions, both 
within our own facility as well as in coordination with 
our neighboring community, to support a more sus-
tainable approach to environmental and climate.
• solar panels have been installed.
• electric/hybrid car charging stations have been 
installed, and we are discussing with our neighbors 
the possibility of adding more.
• ample covered bicycle parking is provided.
• teleconferencing is enabled in more than half of 
the dedicated meeting rooms, and videoconfer-
encing in three rooms in the meeting center both 
of which will help to minimise travel.
• we are partnering with other companies in our  
area to encourage co-commuting enabled via a 
common mobile app.
risk and mitigation
handling of materials and waste from our laboratories 
poses risk of spills. thorough employee training as 
well as proper outsourced removal mitigates this risk.
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
environmental 
sustainability and 
climate
•  zealand continued to encourage employees to 
take environmental and climate friendly initiatives.
•  various methods implemented in our new  
denmark facility to enable energy efficiency, sus-
tainable energy sourcing, and responsible travel.
•  internal csr and environmental work group is  
established to ensure continuous improvements.
•  zealand will examine in which areas we can provide 
relevant metrics, potentially drive measurable im-
provement in our environmental impact and begin 
to record these where it can.
•  zealand will continue to minimize the environmen-
tal impact and encourage employees to continue 
with environmental and climate friendly initiatives.
sdg 12: ensure 
sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns
13
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
environment
ethics
we strive to operate according to 
the highest ethical standards, and 
safeguard our business against 
corruption and noncompliance.
business ethics
zealand’s reputation as a trusted business and scien-
tific partner are of the utmost importance. therefore, 
our employees are trained and kept updated with 
policies on good business practice and compliance, 
insider trading, and appropriate legal management of 
third party intellectual property.
we strive to operate according to the highest ethical  
standards, and safeguard our business against corru-
tion and noncompliance where employees are most 
at risk. zealand will proactively engage in a positive 
dialogue with all regulatory and advisory authorities 
and with stakeholders from relevant industries in or-
der to be inspired to make further improvements.
as part of its program of maintaining a robust ethical 
working environment, zealand maintains a whistle-
blower program that is monitored by an external law 
firm to ensure that issues that need to be examined 
by senior management and members of the board  
of directors are brought to their attention when 
appropriate.
we actively promote and maintain a policy of trans-
parency and honesty with our employees. zealand’s 
employee handbook stipulates a set of policies that 
specify the company’s standards regarding its em-
ployees’ general and legal conduct.
zealand has taken every precaution to keep all em-
ployees, board members and certain stakeholders 
up to date and compliant with our internal rules. we 
distinguish carefully between those who are listed on 
its permanent insiders’ list and those who are ex-
posed to what is deemed insider information. in the 
latter case, zealand takes every precaution to keep an 
up-to-date list of employees’ knowledge of insider 
information. all new employees are introduced to our 
internal rules and have to sign a document stipulating 
that they have read and understood these rules.
we have strict policies regarding the proper use and 
transfer of intellectual property. since it was founded, 
zealand has refined its confidentiality and material 
transfer agreements to reflect critical changes in the 
industry, building on the extensive industry experi-
ence of many of its senior members.
during its ongoing vendor selection process it re-
views its potential partners as part of the process to 
engage with them in supply agreements. at present all 
our vendors are located in the united states, canada, 
china or the european union that we believe these 
territories operate to an appropriate standard of human 
rights protections in so far as zealand products are 
concerned.
risk and mitigation
the main risks related to our activities include 
employees’ and business partners’ violation of our 
anti-corruption commitment and potential legal and 
financial consequences thereof. zealand’s whistle-
blower program and insider information list are two 
methods for mitigating such risk. we are developing 
programs to support ongoing maintenance of code 
of business conduct understanding among employ-
ees, as well as a more robust program to ensure data 
privacy and protection.
sdg 16: promote peaceful and 
inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive 
institutions at all levels
14
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
ethics
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
business ethics
•  all new employees have been introduced to zealand’s internal rules as 
part of the introduction program.
•  no issues were reported under our whistle blower program.
•  success introduction to over 100 employees in usa during 2020 as  
part of our improved sales force.
•  updated policies and standard operating procedures have been develop ed. 
•  zealand will continue to have focus on privacy regulation and the gdpr.
•  zealand will continue to operate according to the highest ethical standards.
•  our code of business conduct is part of the introduction program for all  
new employees. all employees will be periodically reminded of its scope,  
and document that they are aware of it.
•  a new data protection policy will be adopted.
•  development of appropriate and clear vendor selection criteria for  
new vendors and ways to ensure that vendors that are selected have  
appropriate respect for human rights.
achievements in 2020
focus areas in 2021
animal welfare
•  no incidents of negligence were reported.
•  zealand will continue to focus on animal welfare and comply with the  
principles of the 3rs.
animal welfare
to allow for the discovery of new therapies and to 
ensure the efficacy and safety of new pharmaceuti-
cals as required by regulatory authorities, it is neces-
sary to conduct in vivo experiments using laboratory 
animal species.
zealand’s policy on animal ethics and welfare is to use 
animal studies only where no available and acceptable 
in vitro alternative exists. all laboratory animals used 
under our responsibility must be treated humanely 
and with respect, and only purpose-bred animals are 
used. zealand adheres to the principles of the 3rs 
(reduce, refine, replace) and works to integrate these 
principles in all studies carried out, wherever possible.
all in-house animal studies are carried out in accord-
ance with specific licenses issued by the ministry of 
environment and food of denmark and international 
guidelines, as appropriate. danish law stipulates regu-
lar inspections of the animal facilities as well as com-
prehensive reporting protocols overseeing experi-
ments conducted during the year, processed through 
the animal experiments inspectorate. the continu-
ous dialogue between lab technicians, veterinarians, 
academic staff and heads of department, ultimately 
ensures the highest animal welfare standards in all 
studies conducted.
all employees working with laboratory animals have 
appropriate and documented education and training. 
veterinary checks of our animals are performed regu-
larly and always when needed.
in addition, zealand’s internal ethical committee scru-
tinizes all proposed in-house in vivo pharmacology, 
toxicology and pk experiments for compliance with 
regulatory permissions and highest ethical standards.
the necessity of animal experiments to zealand’s 
research and development activities cannot be over-
stated, and thus we constantly strive for the greatest 
vigilance and care in our treatment of animals.
15
zealand pharma ∞ corporate responsibility report 2020
design and production: noted
zealand pharma a/s
sydmarken 11
dk-2860 søborg
denmark
 
tel: +45 88 77 36 00
fax: +45 88 77 38 98
cvr no.: 20 04 50 78
 
www.zealandpharma.com
