 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 1 / 105 
 
 
 
 
fj 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents  
 2 / 105 
management review 
5 years performance 
3 
preface 
4 
2020 performance and 2021 outlook 
6 
strategy review 
15 
research and development 
19 
risk management 
26 
sustainability & compliance 
28 
corporate governance 
31 
executive management 
32 
board of directors 
34 
the lundbeck share 
36 
summary for the group 2016-2020 
40 
financial statements 
consolidated financial statements 
43 
financial statements of the parent company 
85 
management statement 
97 
independent auditor’s reports 
98 
contents 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 3 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  
currency conversion is based on average exchange rates for 2020 
 
**  
2017-2019 have been restated to reflect the reversal of an impairment loss on the 
rexulti® product rights in 2017 
revenue  
(dkkm) 
 
research and development costs  
(dkkm) 
 
operating profit before depreciation 
and amortization (ebitda)** 
(dkkm) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
profit from operations (ebit)** 
(dkkm) 
 
earnings per share, basic (eps)** 
(dkk) 
 
proposed dividend per share  
(dkk) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cash 
flows 
from 
operating 
and  
investing activities  
(dkkm) 
 
ebit margin** 
(%) 
 
average number of employees  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
5 years 
performance* 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 4 / 105 
 
 
 
 
2020 has been an unparalleled year. covid-19 tested us all; not 
only the company and our employees, but also the patients we 
serve. 
  
under extraordinary circumstances, our employees have shown 
immense creativity and can-do attitude in their wholehearted 
efforts to deliver on our purpose of restoring brain health. their 
determination and hard work made us able to continue to supply 
medicine to more than 7 million patients who depend on our 
therapies. 
 
our strategic brands - abilify maintena®, brintellix®/trintellix®, 
northera®, rexulti®/rxulti® and vyepti® - continue to show good 
growth, both in volume and value, across all regions. both our 
mature and strategic brands have shown remarkable resiliency, 
which can be attributed to their well-known effectiveness and 
good tolerability profiles. our supply chains have remained 
uninterrupted throughout the pandemic, ensuring we have been 
able to deliver medicines to the patients who need them most.  
 
we have expanded our operating space and therapeutic reach 
through acquisitions in 2019. we are now in the process of 
building a migraine and specialty pain franchise, with the launch 
of vyepti in the u.s. and with regulatory approvals in additional 
countries underway.  
 
we are transforming our r&d organization to build a pipeline 
around high unmet medical needs, in specialist neuroscience 
indications. furthermore, we are fortifying our winning culture, 
leveraging the diversity of our global workforce to drive our 
progress.  
 
we remain committed to our shared purpose of being tirelessly 
dedicated to restoring brain health, so every person can be their 
best.  
 
our newest strategic brand, vyepti, an effective treatment for 
migraine prevention  
on 21 february, vyepti was approved by the u.s. food and drug 
administration (fda) and subsequently launched on 6 april 2020. 
vyepti is a powerful, fast and sustained treatment for migraine 
prevention. it is the first and only intravenous treatment for 
prevention of migraines on the market. migraine is the second 
leading cause of years lived with disability among all diseases. 
more than 130 million insured people in the u.s. have access to 
vyepti without a branded step.  
 
we are very encouraged with how the product is delivering for 
people with migraine who have reported their great satisfaction 
with the efficacy, tolerability and ease of use of the product.  
 
launching during a pandemic definitely impacted the speed of 
uptake of this infusion therapy, but patient uptake continues to 
rise steadily.  
 
rebuilding our pipeline  
throughout 2020, we have been transforming our approach to 
r&d to more effectively enable delivery of a steady stream of 
breakthrough and differentiated medicines across all phases of 
the pipeline. the transformation has ensured a more innovative 
approach to research and development. 
 
we have a strong, sustainable early clinical pipeline – two new 
molecules entered phase i this year, offsetting two that exited 
phase ii. we have also initiated studies in new indications to 
explore the full benefit to patients of our pipeline and marketed 
molecules. 
 
preclinically, we have focused our internal discovery research on 
four clusters, which represent areas of emerging biology in 
neuroscience, rich with opportunities to address a range of 
indications. we have established experimental medicine unit 
capabilities to earlier establish the technical and scientific 
qualities of our clinical candidates, in order to de-risk the path to 
the market. 
 
clinical trials, initially impacted by covid-19, are picking up pace 
– enrollment rates are increasing, however still not at the level we 
experienced before the pandemic.  
 
  
 
preface  
 
lundbeck showed resiliency during 
unprecedented times. 
 
against the backdrop of a global 
pandemic, we are pleased with the 
performance of the business during 
2020. lundbeck employees showed 
resiliency and responded to the immense 
challenges faced. they continue to put 
patients first, while embracing and 
delivering on our expand and invest to 
grow strategy. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 5 / 105 
 
 
 
 
committed to building a better world  
this year we introduced a company-wide diversity & inclusion 
forum. just as much as we need a global and cross functional 
working organization, we also need a diverse and inclusive one. 
we aim to enrich our decision making through the different 
viewpoints that a diverse workforce brings, and we are also taking 
steps to ensure our clinical trials better reflect the diversity of the 
patients we serve.  
 
we have a zero-tolerance approach to harassment, racism and 
discrimination of any kind and clear processes for employees and 
stakeholders to voice their concerns and have them addressed.  
 
as part of our commitment to sustainability, we launched an 
access to brain health strategy that goes beyond making safe 
and efficacious medicine available. it builds on four long-term 
aspirations aimed at enhancing brain health accessibility for the 
most vulnerable.  
 
we are transitioning our business model to a net-zero future as 
approved by the science based targets initiative. to drive efforts 
forward, we will report progress annually and get revalidation of 
our pathway to future-proof low-carbon growth at minimum every 
5 years. 
thank you for your continued support 
the pandemic has had a tremendous impact on mental health 
around the world. we continue to work closely with stakeholders 
to raise awareness and fight stigma associated with brain 
diseases through our advocacy and outreach programs.  
 
we will continue to build on the progress we made during 2020, 
implementing digital approaches throughout our business where 
they can help us better engage with our stakeholders and drive 
better outcomes for patients. we will forge ahead, reaccelerating 
our strategic brands as we move out of the pandemic. we will 
continue to transform r&d and focus on filling our pipeline with 
treatments for brain diseases for which there are few, if any, 
treatment options and niche diseases affecting subpopulations of 
people where there is a high, unmet medical need. we will 
leverage our winning culture to take lundbeck ahead. 
 
on behalf of lundbeck’s board of directors, executive 
management and employees, we would like to thank all 
stakeholders for the trust you place in our company.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lars søren rasmussen 
             deborah dunsire 
chairman of the board 
             president and ceo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 6 / 105 
 
 
 
 
we experienced robust growth in sales of our strategic brands; 
abilify 
maintena®, 
brintellix®/trintellix®, 
northera®, 
and 
rexulti®/rxulti®. our new strategic brand, vyepti®, was launched 
in the u.s. on 6 april 2020, adding to sales growth. 
 
in 2020, lundbeck’s total revenue reached dkk 17,672 million 
compared to the guidance for 2020 set out in the annual report 
2019 of dkk 17.4 – 18.0 bn. operating profit (ebit) reached dkk 
1,990 million compared to the guidance for 2020 set out in the 
annual report 2019 of dkk 2.2 – 2.7 bn. this was mainly due to 
the foliglurax impairment and the increase in amortizations on the 
rexulti product rights as a consequence of the decision in 
november 
2020 
from 
the 
danish 
business 
authority 
(erhvervsstyrelsen). however, the realized ebit for 2020 is in 
line with the updated guidance in november 2020 in which the 
expected ebit for 2020 was dkk 1.7 – 1.9 bn. 
 
net profit for the year ended at dkk 1,581 million. 
 
vyepti will be a significant driver of growth in the coming years, 
as it serves a big unmet medical need in migraine prevention as 
a fast, powerful and sustained iv treatment. it will also be the first 
product in lundbeck’s history that we launch globally without the 
use of partners, thereby retaining the entire value.  
 
in february 2019, we announced our expand and invest to grow 
strategy and during 2020 we have continued to make significant 
progress across all our strategic imperatives, setting us up for 
long-term growth.  
 
our top priority is to provide innovative treatments that create 
value for patients as well as the company. in 2019, we expanded 
our operating space and therapeutic reach through acquisitions. 
now, with the launch of vyepti, we are in the process of building 
a migraine and specialty pain franchise and we are transforming 
our r&d organization to build a pipeline around high unmet 
medical needs, in specialist neuroscience indications. 
 
 
total revenue 2020 
 
dkkm 
2020 
2019 
growth 
growth  
in local 
currencies 
abilify maintena® 
2,271 
1,961 
16% 
17% 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
3,102 
2,826 
10% 
13% 
northera® 
2,553 
2,328 
10% 
12% 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
2,620 
2,270 
15% 
17% 
vyepti® 
93 
- 
- 
- 
strategic brands 
10,639 
9,385 
13% 
16% 
 
 
 
 
 
cipralex®/lexapro® 
2,380 
2,314 
3% 
7% 
onfi® 
642 
1,052 
(39%) 
(38%) 
sabril® 
777 
847 
(8%) 
(7%) 
other pharmaceuticals 
2,738 
3,100 
(12%) 
(9%) 
other revenue 
491 
660 
(26%) 
(25%) 
effects from hedging 
5 
(322) 
- 
- 
total revenue 
17,672 
17,036 
4% 
4% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   2020 performance 
and 2021 outlook 
 
in 2020, lundbeck saw continued 
growth of our strategic brands across all 
regions. sales have been impacted by 
deteriorating currencies as well as the 
global pandemic. 
 
we made good progress on our expand 
and invest to grow strategy and 
strengthened our pipeline. 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 7 / 105 
 
 
 
 
covid-19 situation report 
lundbeck’s priorities during the global pandemic are to ensure 
the health and safety of its employees and to continue to safely 
supply all our medicines to millions of patients around the world. 
we have successfully implemented and embraced new ways of 
working, including less travel and switching to virtual meeting 
solutions. across our operations and over the course of the 
pandemic, our employees have been able to adapt and have 
successfully shifted their working patterns depending on the 
situation in their particular country. without the passion for our 
patients and the commitment to excellence in serving them 
shown by every single lundbeck employee, we could not have 
achieved the strong results demonstrated in 2020. 
 
while we benefitted somewhat in the first quarter from stockpiling 
by both patients and pharmacies, this was reversed in the second 
quarter and it is our assessment that the inventory situation has 
normalized. our product portfolio has generally been very 
resilient even if many physicians are still seeing significantly 
fewer patients than before the pandemic. for example, in the u.s. 
revenue of products such as brintellix/trintellix, where uptake is 
dependent on new patient starts, have been negatively impacted 
due to the pandemic. 
 
a significant reduction of in-person patient visits to physician 
offices significantly reduced the use of physician-administered 
therapies in the u.s. across all disease categories. 
 
we expect that health care activity will gradually improve during 
2021 as health care providers utilize telehealth or in-person visits 
to see patients despite additional covid-19 outbreaks, including 
that:  
• new patient prescriptions will continue to improve in the 
u.s.;  
• pricing headwinds from increased utilization of patient 
affordability programs and changes in segment mix due to 
increased u.s. unemployment will continue to be modest;  
• promotional spend will constitute a mix of in-person 
customer interactions, direct-to-consumer advertising, and 
investments in digital promotion.  
 
the launch of vyepti in april 2020 was significantly impacted by 
patients being generally unable to visit healthcare providers to 
receive an infusion therapy, but we saw this gradually improving 
during the second half of the year. 
 
the covid-19 pandemic also continued to impact clinical and 
regulatory activities causing manageable disruptions. importantly, 
we did see a reacceleration of clinical activity as sites reopen 
patient accrual, although with intermittent limitations. 
 
our cash collections continue to be according to our normal trade 
terms, and days sales outstanding are at normal levels. in 
addition, in april 2020, lundbeck purchased a “key buyer” credit 
insurance covering around 100 of the largest customers of the 
group. the credit insurance protects against insolvency, 
protracted default and political risk. lundbeck remains well 
positioned to meet its ongoing financial obligations and has more 
than sufficient liquidity to support our normal business activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 8 / 105 
 
 
 
 
sales performance 
revenue in 2020 reached dkk 17,672 million compared to dkk 
17,036 million in 2019. the strategic brands (abilify maintena, 
brintellix/trintellix, northera, rexulti/rxulti and vyepti) grew by 
13% for the year, reaching dkk 10,639 million or 60% of total 
revenue. lundbeck continues to see solid underlying demand 
and the inventory level at wholesalers is assessed to be 
normalized. the biggest markets are the u.s., china, canada, 
japan, spain, italy and france.  
  
north america 
revenue reached dkk 9,790 million in 2020, which is an 
increase of 2% (4% in local currencies) compared to dkk 9,583 
million in 2019. the strategic brands, abilify maintena, trintellix, 
northera, rexulti and vyepti, grew by 13% for the year, reaching 
dkk 7,845 million. adjusting for onfi, sales for the region 
increased 7%. the covid-19 pandemic continues to impact 
business in the region.  
 
abilify maintena® revenue grew 16% (18% in local currencies) 
for the year and reached dkk 980 million, which represents 
lundbeck’s share of total net sales. in the u.s., abilify maintena 
is co-marketed with otsuka pharmaceutical and has a volume 
market share of 20.7% and in canada it reached 30.8% by 
october 2020 (source: iqvia). 
 
trintellix® sales grew 7% (9% in local currencies) to dkk 1,682 
million in revenue for lundbeck. the volume market share in the 
u.s. and canada was 0.9% and 1.34% of the total anti-
depressant market, respectively by october 2020. the value 
market share of the total anti-depressant market in the u.s. was 
24.3%. in canada, the value market share of the total anti-
depressant market was 24.0% by october 2020 (source: iqvia). 
 
northera® sales reached dkk 2,553 million in 2020, representing 
growth of 10% (12% in local currencies). 
 
lundbeck’s share of rexulti® revenue reached dkk 2,537 million 
with growth of 14% (16% in local currencies). in the u.s., rexulti 
has achieved a market volume share of 2.1% by october 2020 
(source: iqvia). in canada, the product has reached a volume 
market share of 2.5%. patient data suggest that more than 3/4 of 
prescriptions in the u.s. are prescribed for major depressive 
disorder (mdd). 
 
vyepti® was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration 
(fda) on 21 february 2020 for the preventive treatment of 
chronic and frequent episodic migraine in adults. the product was 
made available on 6 april and reached sales of dkk 93 million in 
2020. vyepti can be obtained via selected specialty distributors 
and specialty pharmacies. it is still very early in the launch, and 
the uptake has been affected by general decline in physician-
administered medicines during the pandemic. nonetheless, more 
patients are being treated with vyepti, and we are encouraged by 
the strong positive feedback from clinicians and patients on the 
positive effects and the ease of use. there have also been 
several national and regional payers who have issued positive 
coverage policies and vyepti is now available to more than 130 
million insured patients without them having to go through any 
other branded prevention therapies. setting the stage further, in 
october the centers for medicare & medicaid services issued a 
permanent j-code. it helps reduce uncertainty around 
reimbursement and improves vyepti claim processing turnaround 
time. 
   
revenue – north america 
dkkm 
2020 
2019 
growth 
growth  
in local 
currencies 
abilify maintena® 
980 
845 
16% 
18% 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
1,682 
1,579 
7% 
9% 
northera® 
2,553 
2,328 
10% 
12% 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
2,537 
2,219 
14% 
16% 
vyepti® 
93 
- 
- 
- 
strategic brands 
7,845 
6,971 
13% 
15% 
onfi® 
642 
1,052 
(39%) 
(38%) 
sabril® 
777 
847 
(8%) 
(7%) 
other pharmaceuticals 
526 
713 
(26%) 
(25%) 
total revenue 
9,790 
9,583 
2% 
4% 
financial 
performance 
  
 
2020 product portfolio 
 
our strategic brands are abilify maintena® 
(schizophrenia), brintellix®/trintellix® (depression), 
northera® (symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic 
hypotension), rexulti®/rxulti® 
(depression/schizophrenia) and vyepti® (migraine 
prevention). 
 
our product portfolio also includes azilect® 
(parkinson’s disease), cipralex®/lexapro® 
(depression), ebixa® (alzheimer’s disease), onfi® 
(lennox-gastaut syndrome), sabril® (epilepsy) and 
xenazine® (chorea associated with huntington’s 
disease) as well as other mature products. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 9 / 105 
 
 
 
 
international markets 
revenue from international markets, which comprise all 
lundbeck’s markets outside of europe and north america, 
reached dkk 4,057 million in 2020, compared to dkk 3,892 
million in 2019. the growth of 4% (10% in local currencies) was 
driven by brintellix/trintellix, cipralex/lexapro, rexulti and abilify 
maintena. the biggest markets are australia, brazil, china, 
japan and south korea. china realized modest growth and 
constitutes close to 25% of the regional revenue. the strategic 
brands grew by 19% (28% in local currencies) for the year ending 
at dkk 858 million corresponding to 21% of revenue from the 
region. 
 
abilify maintena® reached dkk 210 million in revenue in 2020 
representing a growth of 27% (30% in local currencies). sales are 
mainly derived from australia where abilify maintena shows solid 
momentum and achieved a volume market share of 28.5% by 
october 2020 (source: iqvia). countries such as kuwait and 
saudi arabia also had a positive impact. 
 
brintellix®/trintellix® reached dkk 583 million in revenue or an 
increase of 13% (24% in local currencies). the product realized 
solid growth across several markets. brazil, china, mexico, south 
korea and turkey are the largest markets for brintellix.  
 
rexulti® reached dkk 65 million in revenue in 2020. in 
international markets, the product had its highest sales in 
australia, where it has achieved a market share to 2% in volume 
by october 2020 (source: iqvia).  
 
cipralex®/lexapro® generated revenue of dkk 1,730 million 
representing a growth of 6% (11% in local currencies). the 
revenue of the product shows solid growth in most countries in 
the region including japan and china. japan, china, south korea, 
brazil and saudi arabia are the largest markets for 
cipralex/lexapro.  
 
revenue – international markets 
dkkm 
2020 
2019 
growth 
 
growth  
in local 
currencies 
abilify maintena® 
210 
165 
27% 
30% 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
583 
517 
13% 
24% 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
65 
40 
63% 
74% 
strategic brands 
858 
722 
19% 
28% 
cipralex®/lexapro®   
1,730 
1,638 
6% 
11% 
other pharmaceuticals 
1,469 
1,532 
(4%) 
0% 
total revenue 
4,057 
3,892 
4% 
10% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 10 / 105 
 
 
 
 
europe 
revenue reached dkk 3,329 million in 2020, representing a 
growth of 3% (4% in local currencies) compared to dkk 3,223 
million last year. the strategic brands, abilify maintena, brintellix 
and rexulti/rxulti, grew by 14% thereby reaching dkk 1,936 
million or 58% of total revenue. in general, europe sees a solid 
underlying demand offsetting negative price development. the 
mature portfolio is impacted by continued generic erosion. 
 
abilify maintena® has been launched across europe and is 
lundbeck’s largest product in the region. sales uptake of abilify 
maintena is solid with revenue reaching dkk 1,081 million. in 
europe, the penetration of long-acting atypical antipsychotics is 
generally higher than seen in the u.s. (volume). driven by 
increasing demand from patients, sales of abilify maintena are 
growing across europe and the product in general has achieved 
a 25% or more volume market share in most markets. in some 
markets, the product is approaching or has exceeded 30%. abilify 
maintena is the second most prescribed long acting injectable 
treatment for patients with schizophrenia in many markets. spain, 
france and italy are the largest european markets for abilify 
maintena. 
 
brintellix® revenue grew 15% reaching dkk 837 million. 
brintellix is lundbeck’s second largest product in europe and 
realized solid growth across many markets. in the main countries, 
france, italy and spain, the product has achieved value market 
shares of 10%, 9% and 9% respectively by october 2020 (source: 
iqvia). the volume market shares are stable or slightly 
increasing at 4%, 3.6% and 3% respectively (source: iqvia).  
 
rexulti®/rxulti® revenue reached dkk 18 million. the product 
was approved for the treatment of adults with schizophrenia in 
july 2018. rxulti is co-marketed with otsuka pharmaceutical. 
 
cipralex® generated revenue of dkk 523 million following a 
decline of 3%. 
 
revenue – europe 
dkkm 
2020 
2019 
growth 
growth  
in local 
currencies 
abilify maintena® 
1,081 
951 
14% 
14% 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
837 
730 
15% 
15% 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
18 
11 
62% 
57% 
strategic brands 
1,936 
1,692 
14% 
15% 
cipralex®/lexapro® 
523 
538 
(3%) 
(3%) 
other pharmaceuticals 
870 
993 
(12%) 
(12%) 
total revenue 
3,329 
3,223 
3% 
4% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 11 / 105 
 
 
 
 
costs and profits 
total costs in 2020 grew by 17% to dkk 15,623 million compared 
to dkk 13,369 million for 2019. 
 
the increase is mainly due to:  
 
• increased investments in the commercial organization in the 
u.s., china and japan related to support the continued 
growth of brintellix/trintellix and vyepti;  
• impairment in the first half of 2020 of the foliglurax product 
rights and r&d restructuring costs both recognized in r&d 
costs of dkk 792 million and dkk 77 million, respectively;  
• the manufacturing of vyepti has shown to be more cost 
effective and thus production costs will be lower going 
forward. in q4 new information related to the inventory 
valuation was obtained about facts and circumstances that 
existed as of the acquisition date. this information resulted 
in a partial reversal of the p&l adjustment of inventory 
against goodwill. net non-recurring impact for the year is 
dkk 47 million (non-cash); 
• increase in amortization due to vyepti of approximately dkk 
500 million.  
 
excluding the non-recurring costs for foliglurax impairment, the 
r&d restructuring costs and the vyepti inventory valuation 
adjustment, total costs increased by approximately 10%. 
 
cost of sales increased by 8% to dkk 4,166 million in 2020 and 
the gross margin is 76.4%. cost of sales is impacted by the 
valuation adjustment of vyepti’s inventory due to the stabilization 
of the production after the start-up phase and the decline in onfi 
sales that is offset by the changed product mix, resulting in 
reduced royalty costs.  
 
sales and distribution costs were dkk 5,946 million, an 
increase of 8% compared to 2019. sales and distribution costs 
correspond to 33.6% of revenue, compared to 32.3% the year 
before. 
 
administrative expenses increased 7% to dkk 966 million, 
corresponding to 5.5% of total revenue. 
 
total sales, distribution and administrative expenses (sg&a) 
combined were dkk 6,912 million, compared to dkk 6,413 
million in 2019. the sg&a ratio for the year was 39.1%, 
compared to 37.6% the prior year.  
 
research & development costs increased 46% to dkk 4,545 
million in 2020. the r&d ratio reached 25.7%. adjusted for the 
impairment and the restructuring costs, the r&d ratio was 21%. 
 
other operating expenses, net amounted to dkk 59 million for 
2020 as a consequence of acquisition and integration costs 
related to the acquisition of alder biopharmaceuticals inc. in 2019. 
in 2019, other operating expenses, net amounted to dkk 514 
milion.    
 
core ebit for 2020 declined 11% to dkk 4,436 million and the 
core ebit margin was 25.1%*. reported ebit reached dkk 
1,990 million compared to dkk 3,153 million in 2019, driven by 
the foliglurax impairment and the valuation adjustment of vyepti’s 
inventory due to the stabilization of production after the start-up 
phase. 
 
tax 
the effective tax rate for 2020 is 17.0% compared to 23.6% in 
2019**. the tax rate is positively impacted by the increase in 
danish research & development incentives and by integration 
work of acquired companies causing: 
 
• accelerated utilization of net operating losses (nols) 
leading to recognition of prior year not-recognized nols 
and tax credits; 
• lower blended state rate taxes; 
• low tax rate realized on transfers to denmark of all ip rights 
from la jolla and all ip rights related to foliglurax. 
 
 
 
 
*  
for definition of the measure “core ebit” and “core ebit margin”, see page 103 
core reconciliation  
 
**  
please find lundbeck’s tax policy on 
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability/society/tax-policy  
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 12 / 105 
 
 
 
 
profit and eps 
profit for 2020 reached dkk 1,581 million compared to dkk 
2,313 million in 2019. the reported net profit corresponds to an 
eps of dkk 7.95 versus an eps of dkk 11.64 last year. core 
eps was dkk 18.91 for 2020, compared to a core eps of dkk 
19.46 in 2019. 
 
cash flow 
cash flows from operating activities amounted to dkk 3,837 
million in 2020 compared to dkk 2,609 million in 2019. the 
positive development compared to last year primarily relates to 
reduced taxes paid and limited cash flow impact from working 
capital in 2020 while 2019 had significant negative impact from 
working capital. 
 
lundbeck’s net cash flows from investing activities was an 
outflow of dkk 467 million compared to an outflow of dkk 7,755 
million in 2019 as a consequence of the acquisition of alder. the 
free cash flow reached an inflow of dkk 3,370 million in 2020 
compared to an outflow of dkk 5,146 million in 2019. 
 
in 2020, the net cash flow reached an inflow of dkk 976 million 
compared to an outflow of dkk 598 million in 2019. the net cash 
flow is impacted by dividend payout, net of dkk 815 million which 
was approved at the annual general meeting on 26 march 2020 
and repayment of bank loans.  
 
net debt has decreased from dkk 6,566 million at year-end 2019 
to dkk 4,106 million at the end of 2020. interest bearing debt 
was dkk 8,030 million at the end of the year. 
 
on 8 october 2020, lundbeck announced a successful 
eurobond issuance in an aggregate principal amount of eur 
500 million (the "notes") under its eur 2 billion euro medium 
term note programme. the notes are senior unsecured notes 
with a tenor of seven years maturing on 14 october 2027. the 
notes were issued on 14 october 2020. the net proceeds from 
the issuance has been used for the partial refinancing of 
drawdowns previously made under lundbeck’s existing revolving 
credit facility. as such, the issuance is leverage-neutral. the 
notes carry a fixed coupon of 0.875% per annum. 
 
balance sheet  
at 31 december 2020, lundbeck’s total assets amounted to 
dkk 36,029 million compared to dkk 38,133 million at the end 
of 2019 mainly following a decline in intangible assets due to 
amortization and the impairment of foliglurax. 
 
at 31 december 2020, lundbeck's equity amounted to dkk 
16,973 million, corresponding to an equity ratio of 47.1% 
compared to 44.0% at the end of 2019. 
 
dividend  
the board of directors proposes a dividend of approximately 
31% of net profit for 2020, in line with our payout policy of 30-60%. 
this corresponds to a dividend of dkk 2.50 per share. the 
dividend payout is subject to approval at the annual general 
meeting on 23 march 2021.  
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 13 / 105 
 
 
 
 
guidance 2021 
lundbeck’s financial results for 2021 are expected to be driven 
by the continued growth of abilify maintena, brintellix/trintellix, 
rexulti/rxulti and the expected strong growth of vyepti from the 
continued roll-out. 
 
northera is expected to be exposed to generic competition in 
2021, which is expected to lead to a decline of approximately 50% 
of revenue compared to 2020. 
 
lundbeck’s main currencies are usd, cny and cad. the 
financial guidance for 2021 is based on mid-january spot rates 
for the main currencies and includes an expected hedging gain of 
dkk 150 - 200 million. the current hedging rates are usd/dkk 
(6.48), cny/dkk (0.92) and cad/dkk (4.75). 
 
based on our assumptions for product and geographical mix, it is 
estimated that 5% change of the usd/dkk exchange rate will 
impact revenue by dkk 250 – 300 million. the financial guidance 
for 2021 is summarized below:  
 
financial guidance 2021 
dkk 
 
fy 2020 actual 
fy 2021 guidance 
revenue 
17,672 m 
16.3 – 16.9 bn 
ebitda 
4,783 m 
3.5 – 4.0 bn  
profit from operation (ebit) 
1,990 m 
1.8 – 2.3 bn 
core ebit 
4,436 m 
3.1 – 3.6 bn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disclaimer 
 
forward-looking statements are subject to risks, 
uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. this may 
cause actual results to differ materially from 
expectations. various factors may affect future 
results, incl. interest rates and exchange rate 
fluctuations, delay or failure of development 
projects, production problems, unexpected contract 
breaches or terminations, governance-mandated or 
market-driven price decreases for products, 
introduction of competing products, lundbeck’s 
ability to successfully market both new and existing 
products, exposure to product liability and other 
lawsuits, changes in reimbursement rules and 
governmental laws, and unexpected growth in 
expenses. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 14 / 105 
 
 
 
 
january 
• lundbeck ranked among the top 2% of more than 8,400 
companies evaluated for their actions against climate 
change by the independent interest group carbon 
disclosure project (cdp), which sets the global standard for 
actions against climate change 
 
february 
• lundbeck applied for market authorization of vyepti in 
canada 
 
• the u.s. food and drug administration approved vyepti, 
the first and only intravenous preventive treatment for 
migraine 
 
march 
• lundbeck received a grant from the michael j. fox 
foundation for parkinson’s disease research 
 
• lundbeck announced that phase iia study results of lu 
ag06466 in adults with tourette syndrome showed 
insufficient efficacy to proceed investigational studies in 
additional indications 
 
• lundbeck held its annual general meeting 
 
• lundbeck announced that the phase iia ambled study of 
foliglurax for the treatment of parkinson's disease did not 
meet the primary study endpoint 
 
april 
• lundbeck launched vyepti in the u.s. 
 
june 
• as part of the expand and invest to grow strategy, lundbeck 
announced changes to its organization in research & 
development to focus in four core areas of emerging 
biologies 
that 
have 
significant 
potential 
to 
yield 
transformative therapies for brain disease in the future 
 
august 
• lundbeck announced the decision to discontinue the phase 
ii clinical study of lu af11167 in patients with schizophrenia 
 
• lundbeck announced positive headline results in the 
relief study of efficacy and tolerability of vyepti when 
initiated during a migraine attack in patients who are 
candidates for preventive therapy 
 
october 
• lundbeck successfully placed its first eurobond issuance in 
an aggregate principal amount of eur 500 million 
 
• lundbeck initiated a biomarker focused phase 1b study with 
lu ag06466 in patients with post-traumatic stress 
disorder 
 
november  
• the danish business authority required lundbeck to 
conduct a new impairment test for 2017. it led to a reversal 
of an impairment loss on the rexulti product rights. this was 
expected to increase the annual amortizations and thereby 
reduce lundbeck’s fy 2020 financial guidance for reported 
ebit from previously dkk 2.0 – 2.2 billion to approximately 
dkk 1.7 – 1.9 billion 
 
december 
• the european medicines agency accepted lundbeck’s 
application for marketing authorization of vyepti 
 
 
events and 
milestones 2020 
  
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 15 / 105 
 
 
 
 
delivering on our promises 
we have taken significant strides to expand our operating space 
through the acquisitions of abide and alder in 2019, which gave 
us the platforms needed to expand our areas of focus in 
neuroscience. with the 2020 launch of vyepti in the u.s., we are 
beginning to establish a new frontier in migraine prevention and 
expanding 
our 
presence 
into 
protein-based 
therapies. 
furthermore, we are continuously expanding our existing 
portfolio of medicines into new markets. 
 
the changes we made to how we approach r&d enables us to 
de-risk our internal pipeline compounds in early development. we 
utilize an experimental medicine approach to identify effects of a 
drug in carefully selected patient populations, to find the most 
efficient clinical pathway powered by leading biomarkers and 
study designs and advance the most promising drug candidates 
into full development. 
 
the geographical expansion of vyepti and the work we are still 
doing to continue to grow and expand brintellex/trintellix, 
rexulti/rxulti and abilify maintena, along with several other life-
cycle management projects, are all crucial to our future. 
 
we have made choices as to where we will focus our efforts to 
enhance our operations digitally, which will pick up pace into 2021. 
also, we have taken steps to fortify our winning culture with 
increased agility, collaboration, diversity and inclusion. these are 
just a few of many actions that are helping us deliver on the 
promise of our strategy to yield sustainable, long-term profitable 
growth. 
 
while we are realizing growth across our strategic and mature 
brands, we are simultaneously experiencing headwinds that we 
must navigate.  
 
covid-19 has contributed to a slower start than anticipated for 
vyepti sales in the u.s. and has also had an impact on our clinical 
trials. we have faced additional attrition from our mid-stage 
pipeline and early 2021 we lose exclusivity of northera in the u.s. 
 
creating value through our unique position 
our goal continues to be providing innovative treatments for 
patients that create value for the company. achieving our fullest 
potential as a mid-size, highly specialized pharmaceutical 
company requires that we thoughtfully concentrate our efforts 
where we can make the most difference for patients and in areas 
that set us up best for long-term growth. 
 
while we maximize the great medicines and brands that we 
already have, we will simultaneously focus on filling our pipeline 
with treatments for brain diseases for which there are few, if any, 
treatment options and niche diseases affecting subpopulations of 
people where there is a high, unmet medical need. by focusing 
on niche and rare disease neurology and niche psychiatry 
indications, we can best take advantage of our size and strong 
relationships with specialist health care providers to deliver 
powerful solutions to challenging diseases. 
 
we currently promote medicines that, in some countries, both 
primary care physicians and specialists treat. we will continue to 
promote these excellent medicines, working with our partners to 
reach these larger numbers of physicians. 
 
just as important to filling our pipeline and selling our medicines, 
is the manufacturing of our medicines, whether internally or via 
external contract manufacturing. we have strong internal 
capabilities within small molecule and antibody processes and 
formulation development to support our r&d pipeline, internal 
small molecule manufacturing and through our contract 
manufacturing partners for biologics. 
 
our three priorities across production development & supply 
remain quality, reliability and cost. we have a robust track-record 
on all three parameters and ambitious goals to continuously 
improve performance with a strong focus on operational 
excellence. 
 
 
  
 
strategy review 
 
since launching our expand and invest 
to grow strategy in 2019, we continue 
to make strong progress, fueled by our 
purpose, to restore brain health so 
everyone can be their best. 
 
first and foremost, our portfolio of 
medicines provides important benefits 
to patients who need them, hence both 
our strategic and mature brands 
continue to grow. this strong 
foundation together with our winning 
culture positions us well for the future. 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 16 / 105 
 
 
 
 
we aim to build on what we have achieved and capitalize further 
on the strong fundamentals that are deeply ingrained in 
lundbeck; our rich heritage of developing and producing life-
changing treatments for patients, our deep scientific knowledge 
in psychiatry and neurology and our patient-centric mindset. we 
will focus on embracing new biologies and technologies, 
adjusting and learning as we forge ahead.  
 
in the future, we will work with even more agility and collaboration 
across geographies, simplifying our processes and accelerating 
our ability to test and learn for faster, higher quality decision 
making. this will fully leverage our diverse talent, knowledge and 
skill-sets so that we can pursue solving some of the biggest brain 
disease challenges with the greatest patient reward. 
 
expand and invest to grow: our strategic 
imperatives   
we will continue to use our strategic imperatives to guide us 
towards reaching our objective to expand and invest to grow. 
 
maximize existing brands  
our strategic brands continue to show solid growth, both in 
volume and value, across all regions. at the same time, several 
of our mature brands have shown remarkable resiliency. our 
commercial teams will continue to accelerate our efforts in 
growing our mature and strategic brands across more 
geographies, thereby maximising our existing brands to drive 
growth in the coming years.  
 
our strategic brands:  
 
brintellix®/trintellix® is a prescription medication used to treat 
major depressive disorder (mdd). the brand delivered solid 
growth in 2020 despite the flattening in total prescriptions of mdd 
medications during the pandemic. 
 
rexulti®/rxulti® is a prescription medication used as an 
adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of mdd. 
we will continue to maximize this medication with launches in 
additional countries in 2021.  
northera® is a prescription medication used to reduce dizziness 
in adults who have symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic 
hypotension (noh) and who have parkinson's disease. northera 
delivered solid growth in sales and has shown resiliency, despite 
the pandemic. the brand lose exclusivity in the u.s. in early 2021.  
 
abilify maintena® is globally the second most prescribed long 
acting injectable treatment for patients with schizophrenia. in 
some european countries it is the market leader.   
 
vyepti® is an infusion treatment for the prevention of migraine in 
adults. this is our newest strategic brand launched in the u.s. on 
6 april 2020. initial patient testimonials are very encouraging. 
while we continue to file for approval in more countries and 
expand the indications, we remain confident that vyepti will 
deliver for migraine patients and become a strong growth driver 
for lundbeck in the future. 
 
our portfolio of mature brands is large.  
 
in the u.s., onfi, sabril and xenazine are declining after the initial 
loss to generics. the larger group of mature brands is remarkably 
resilient having high levels of trust and brand recognition in many 
markets around the world. and some of the products show 
impressive growth – e.g. cipralex/lexapro – adding an 
underappreciated franchise to our portfolio. 
 
in 2021, we will continue our strong partnerships with otsuka 
pharmaceutical 
and 
takeda 
pharmaceutical 
to 
engage 
healthcare professionals treating a broad range of psychiatric 
diseases, with keen commercial execution against our portfolio of 
strategic and mature brands. 
 
in the coming years, we will further strengthen and reinforce our 
field force ensuring that they have the digital tools and capabilities 
needed to help them to expand their networks and collaborate 
even better with patients and customers. 
 
we continue to ensure patients receive the full benefit of our 
medicines through continued clinical activities, life cycle 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 17 / 105 
 
 
 
 
management programs, proactive patient safety efforts, medical 
activities and value positioning, and also through advocacy 
efforts.  
 
expand operating space  
we have expanded our operating space through the acquisitions 
of alder and abide in 2019, which gave us the platforms needed 
to expand our areas of focus in neuroscience towards our 
targeted indication groups of niche and rare neurology and niche 
psychiatry.  
 
furthermore, we continue to invest to maximize our strategic 
brand franchises - brintellix/trintellix, rexulti/rxulti, abilify 
maintena and vyepti. and we are continuously expanding our 
existing portfolio of medicines into new markets. 
 
we have identified four biological clusters on which to focus our 
r&d efforts that enable us to treat our targeted indication groups. 
these are: 
 
• circuit / neuronal biology: targeting neurotransmission / 
synaptic dysfunction to restore brain circuits and reduce 
neurological, psychiatric, and pain symptoms; 
• hormonal / neuropeptide signaling: targeting selected 
pathways of pain signals and stress response; 
• protein aggregation, folding, and clearance: targeting 
neurodegenerative proteinopathies involved in a range of 
neurodegenerative 
diseases, 
e.g., 
alzheimer’s 
and 
parkinson’s as well as rare diseases; 
• neuroinflammation / neuroimmunology: targeting brain 
function through the innate and adaptive immune system 
relevant across most neurological disorders. 
 
we will continue to pursue opportunities to acquire, partner or 
build up capabilities and innovation in niche and rare neurology 
and niche psychiatry indications with high unmet need that 
complement these biological clusters. 
 
rebuilding the pipeline   
the r&d organization is transforming, adopting an agile mindset 
to enable the team to be more flexible when necessary. in this 
way, we will more effectively and efficiently rebuild our pipeline 
with a balance of first-in-class and best-in-class drug candidates, 
to enable a steady stream of breakthrough and differentiated 
medicines across all phases of the pipeline. 
 
we will continue to shift research & development towards 
specialist treated disease indications that address high unmet 
needs in niche and rare disease neurology and niche psychiatry. 
we will use our four biological clusters in our in-house discovery 
research to target the high unmet needs within our expanded 
operating space and to deliver impactful neuroscience medicines 
of the future.  
 
drawing on our experimental medicine expertise, we will detect 
signals and gain more objective evidence to test efficacy earlier 
in development – de-risking the path to the market.  
 
we will complement the rebuild of our pipeline with the right blend 
of external innovation, mix of acquisitions, partnerships and 
licenses for new medicines that fit with our refined focus on niche 
neuroscience indications. 
 
maintain focus on profitability  
safeguarding a consistent level of profitability ensures our ability 
to make strategic investments in our business.  
 
we will increase cost efficiency across the organization whenever 
we can by further leveraging the knowledge and capabilities in 
our group business services center (gbs) in poland. 
 
we will further harness the power of technology and pull digital 
capabilities into our ways of working to drive greater efficiency. 
 
with our current product portfolio and projects in our pipeline it is 
our ambition to reach an ebit margin of more than 25% by 2025. 
 
enhance organizational agility and collaboration  
we work as global function teams, building on each other’s 
strengths and harnessing the full power of our functions and 
departments across borders for greater outcomes. working 
cross-functionally and cross-geographically allows us full clarity 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 18 / 105 
 
 
 
 
and alignment in terms of prioritization and decision making and 
provides greater opportunity for our people through transfer of 
knowledge and talent development. we work in alignment with 
our priorities and shared purpose. we are grounded in our beliefs. 
we will continue to infuse the organization with more flexible and 
agile ways of working both in terms of how we work and the way 
we work, simplifying our processes and accelerating our ability to 
test and learn for faster, higher quality decision making.  
 
by leveraging digital technologies and capabilities where it can 
make us faster and more effective, we can make the best use of 
our talent and competencies across functions that will enable the 
development of best or first-in-class products and get them to 
patients faster. 
 
just as much as we need a global and cross functional working 
organization, we need a diverse and inclusive one too. we aim to 
enrich our decision making through diversity of thought across all 
that we do. diversity comes from having inclusive teams made 
up of people with different perspectives and experiences - and 
that comes from having an organization of people with different 
nationalities, race, gender and sexual orientation. we have a 
zero-tolerance 
approach 
to 
harassment, 
racism 
and 
discrimination of any kind and clear processes for employees and 
stakeholders to voice their concerns and have them addressed. 
  
equally important, we will continue to ensure sustainable 
business practices following leading environmental, social and 
corporate governance criteria.  
 
our ability to successfully deliver on our strategy takes the entire 
lundbeck team collaborating around our shared purpose of 
restoring brain health, so every person can be their best.  
 
our long-term ambition: to be #1 in brain health 
over the past two years, we have made strategic choices around 
where we put our efforts across our entire business. with the 
choices we made, we have lofty ambitions for what the future 
should look like when we succeed. 
our ambition is to be #1 in brain health – so what does that 
mean?  
 
we will have top quartile financial results in our peer group. 
by focusing on our patients and our products, top financial 
performance will follow.  
 
we will have a premier neuroscience pipeline filled with assets 
that will make a difference to our patients.  
 
we will have an established and focused commercial 
footprint around commercially attractive patient segments in 
niche and rare neurology and psychiatry. 
 
we will be best in class in terms of how we use digital 
technologies to improve patient outcomes.  
 
we will be a company leveraging diversity, with top talents 
across all functions.  
 
we will continue to deliver sustainable growth in revenue and 
profitability. 
 
and finally, we will be on track to be carbon neutral. giving 
back to society is as equally important as financial performance. 
 
the culmination of all this together is what will make us #1 in brain 
health, serving the people who need new medicines to help them 
conquer brain diseases. it will take every brain being fully “in the 
game” to achieve it. we continue to prioritize and take action, 
year by year to stay on track. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 19 / 105 
 
 
 
 
r&d transformation  
in mid-2020, lundbeck restructured the global r&d organization 
to execute on the expand and invest to grow strategy, focusing 
on cutting-edge science, de-risking and optimizing clinical 
development, and supporting the commercialization of truly 
global products. 
 
in the earliest phases, we refocused research into four areas of 
biology, where the science is the most advanced and holds the 
most potential for discovering breakthroughs and differentiated 
therapies. 
 
we established experimental medicine and strengthened 
portfolio management to ensure that programs that progress to 
full development meet stringent criteria, including a positive 
clinical proof of concept and a competitive product profile.  
 
to launch and support truly global products, we refined our 
global-local network in patient safety, regulatory affairs and 
medical affairs, strengthening the link with our commercial 
affiliates. 
 
throughout the value chain, we are implementing state-of-the-art 
technologies (including digital) and agile principles into our ways 
of working, to enable us to stay at the forefront of innovation, to 
progress a strong portfolio of industry-leading therapies, and to 
be the employer and partner of choice. 
 
development pipeline 
lundbeck’s development pipeline underwent significant change 
in 2020. one new molecule was added: lu ag06479 (former 
abx1762; magli - clinical phase i), and two new development 
programs were started: eptinezumab in episodic cluster 
headache (clinical phase iii) and lu ag06466 (former abx-1431; 
magli) in post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) (clinical phase 
ib). four clinical-stage molecules were discontinued: foliglurax 
(mglur4 pam for parkinson’s disease), lu af11167 (pde10 
inhibitor for negative symptoms in schizophrenia), lu af95245 
(kv7. 2-5 channels activator for neuropsychiatric disorders), and 
lu af88434 (pde1b inhibitor for cognitive dysfunction, 
preclinical activity continues). lu ag06466 (former abx-1431; 
magli) will not progress in tourette syndrome, but is being 
explored in other indications.  
 
projects under regulatory review 
eptinezumab for migraine prevention  
eptinezumab for migraine prevention was approved by the u.s. 
food and drug administration (fda) on 21 february 2020. 
 
eptinezumab is a monoclonal antibody (mab) that is 
administered as a quarterly 30-minute iv infusion. eptinezumab 
provides immediate and complete bioavailability and binds to 
calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp), a neuropeptide believed 
to play a key role in mediating and initiating migraines, with high 
specificity and potency.  
 
in 
february 
2020, 
lundbeck 
announced 
that 
vyepti 
(eptinezumab-jjmr) was approved by the fda for the preventive 
treatment of frequent episodic and chronic migraine in adults. the 
recommended dose is 100 mg every 3 months; some patients 
may benefit from a dose of 300 mg. vyepti is the first fda-
approved intravenous (iv) treatment for migraine prevention and 
has demonstrated treatment benefit over placebo as early as day 
1 post-infusion. 
 
in august 2020, lundbeck announced headline results from the 
parallel group, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 
relief-study (nct04152083) that assessed the efficacy and 
tolerability of vyepti when initiated during a migraine attack in 
patients who are candidates for preventive therapy. the study 
met statistical significance on the co-primary endpoints, 
demonstrating that patients receiving a 100 mg vyepti infusion 
during a migraine attack achieved earlier time to freedom from 
headache pain and absence of their most bothersome symptom 
compared to patients receiving the placebo. the most 
bothersome symptom was the individual patient’s choice 
between photophobia, phonophobia and nausea. the key  
secondary endpoints of the proportion of patients with pain  
 
  
 
research and 
development 
 
in 2020, lundbeck transformed the 
r&d organization in order to enrich the 
pipeline with a steady stream of 
programs addressing specialist 
indications in neuroscience with high 
unmet medical need. 
 
our aspiration is to effectively translate 
forefront science into innovative 
therapies, building on lundbeck’s 
strong heritage, competencies, and 
footprint in brain diseases. 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 20 / 105 
 
 
 
 
freedom and the proportion of patients with the absence of their 
most bothersome symptom two hours after the start of infusion, 
also met statistical significance. all other secondary endpoints 
were also statistically significant. 
 
in june 2020, lundbeck initiated the deliver study 
(nct04418765). the purpose of this study is to evaluate 
eptinezumab in the prevention of migraine in patients with 
unsuccessful prior preventive treatments. the patient must have 
documented evidence of treatment failure (must be supported by 
medical records or by a physician's confirmation specific to each 
treatment) in the past 10 years of two to four different migraine 
preventive medications and have a history of either previous or 
active use of triptans for migraine. the total study duration from 
the screening visit to the completion visit is approximately 76 
weeks and includes a screening period (28-30 days), a placebo-
controlled treatment period (24 weeks) and a treatment extension 
period (48 weeks). the patient starts the treatment at the baseline 
visit and follows a 12-week dosing schedule with either 
eptinezumab (100 or 300 mg) or a placebo by intravenous (iv) 
infusion. patients who were assigned to the placebo in the 
placebo-controlled treatment period, will be randomly allocated to 
one of two treatment groups: eptinezumab 300 mg or 
eptinezumab 100 mg (n = 840). 
 
in december 2020, lundbeck initiated the alleviate study 
(nct04688775). the purpose of this study is to evaluate the 
efficacy of eptinezumab intravenously in patients with episodic 
cluster headache (ech). eligible patients will be randomly 
assigned to receive, in a blinded manner, two infusions of either 
eptinezumab or placebo in a cross-over manner during the 
placebo-controlled period and active treatment period of the 
study. the duration of the active study is 24 weeks, including a 
safety follow up period of 8 weeks. 
 
in december 2020, the european medicines agency accepted 
our application for marketing authorization of vyepti and in united 
arab emirates, vyepti received approval. by year end, regulatory 
review was ongoing in eight other countries (australia, brazil, 
canada, indonesia, kuwait, the philippines, singapore and 
switzerland).  
 
pivotal programs (clinical phase iii) 
brexpiprazole – phase iii in alzheimer’s agitation  
lundbeck and otsuka pharmaceutical are pursuing a third 
clinical phase iii study (nct03548584) of brexpiprazole in the 
treatment of agitation in patients with dementia of the alzheimer's 
type. the decision to initiate a third adaptive trial followed 
discussions with the fda regarding two phase iii clinical trials for 
the agitation in alzheimer’s disease indication that were 
completed by otsuka pharmaceutical and lundbeck in 2017. in 
2020, the global covid-19 pandemic impacted recruitment and 
conduct of the trial. as the extent of the pandemic impact is 
unknown, it was decided to increase the power of the trial and 
adjust the sample size to the maximum of 330 subjects and 
conduct an interim analysis, when a targeted sample of 255 
subjects have completed the trial. the interim analysis decision 
will be in accordance with pre-specified criteria and conducted by 
an independent data monitoring committee and is expected to 
take place during the second quarter of 2021. should the study 
need to recruit all 330 patients, completion of the study is 
anticipated at the beginning of 2022, based on the current 
assessment of patient recruitment. the changes are not due to 
any safety concerns and the increased sample size and the plans 
to perform the interim analysis have been accepted by the fda. 
 
brexpiprazole – phase iii in post-traumatic stress disorder 
(ptsd)  
lundbeck and otsuka pharmaceutical initiated a pivotal phase iii 
program (n = ~577) investigating the use of brexpiprazole in 
combination with sertraline in the treatment of ptsd 
(nct04124614) subsequent to a positive phase ii study and an 
end of phase ii meeting with the fda in may 2019. 
 
ptsd is a psychiatric disorder that can develop as a response to 
traumatic events, such as interpersonal violence, combat, life-
threatening accidents or natural disasters. core features of ptsd 
include a variety of symptoms, such as re-experiencing 
phenomena (i.e. flashbacks and nightmares), avoidance 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 21 / 105 
 
 
 
 
behavior, numbing (i.e. amnesia, anhedonia, withdrawal, 
negativism) and increased arousal (i.e. insomnia, irritability, poor 
concentration, hypervigilance). psychiatric co-morbidities are 
common, and ptsd sufferers can also present with substance 
abuse, mood and other anxiety disorders, impulsive and 
dangerous behavior and self-harm. 
 
proof of concept studies (clinical phase ii) 
brexpiprazole – phase ii for borderline personality disorder  
lundbeck and otsuka pharmaceutical have initiated a proof-of-
concept study (n = ~240) investigating the use of brexpiprazole 
in the treatment of borderline personality disorder (bpd) 
subsequent to a type b meeting with the fda in may 2019 
(nct04100096). bpd is characterized by a pervasive pattern of 
instability in affect regulation, impulse control, interpersonal 
relationships, and self-image. the clinical signs of the disorder 
include emotional dysregulation, impulsive aggression, repeated 
self-injury, and chronic suicidal tendencies, which make these 
patients frequent users of mental health resources. there is no 
medication approved for bpd. in october 2019, the fda 
designated as a fast track development program the 
investigation of brexpiprazole for bpd.  
 
first in humans (clinical phase i) 
lu ag06466 (former abx-1431) – phase ib commenced in 
september 2020 
lu ag06466 is an inhibitor of the monoacylglycerol lipase 
(magl) and selective modulator of the endocannabinoid system, 
and thereby works to reduce excessive neurotransmission and 
neuroinflammation that are known pathophysiological hallmarks 
for a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders.  
 
lundbeck is planning investigational studies in other indications 
in neurology and psychiatry both with lu ag06466 and with 
additional compounds generated by lundbeck la jolla research 
center. trials across the indications will assess a variety of 
common biomarkers to develop tools to help guide further late-
stage development. the first of these 1b studies will investigate 
the effect of lu ag06466 after multiple doses. 
lu ag06479 (former abx1762) – phase i commenced in july 
2020 
lu ag06479 is a follow up monoacylglycerol lipase (magl) 
inhibitor. a phase i program has been initiated to investigate the 
safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic of lu ag06479 after 
single dose administration to healthy volunteers (nct04473651). 
the distribution profile of this agent differs from lu ag06466 in 
that it is only moderately brain penetrant. 
 
lu ag09222 (former ald 1910) – phase i  
lu ag09222 is a monoclonal antibody (mab) designed to inhibit 
pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (pacap). 
pacap has emerged as an important signalling molecule in the 
pathophysiology of migraine and represents an attractive novel 
target for treating migraine. lu ag09222 may hold potential as a 
migraine prevention treatment for those who have an inadequate 
response to other therapies and could provide another 
mechanism-specific therapeutic option for migraine patients and 
their physicians. in addition, lu ag09222 may hold potential as a 
treatment of other disorders. the phase i double-blind, placebo-
controlled study of lu ag09222, which was initiated in october 
2019, has demonstrated safety and tolerability.  
 
lu af87908 – phase i  
lu af87908 is a monoclonal antibody targeting the pathological 
form of the protein tau that is believed to play a pivotal role in the 
development and progression of alzheimer’s disease and other 
neurodegenerative disorders. the project aims to demonstrate 
delay of disease progression with a therapeutic effect on disease 
burden and function, by targeting pathological tau with an 
antibody that will inhibit aggregation and potentially clear 
pathological tau from the brain. the ability to offer a treatment 
that will change the course of the disease will offer a fundamental 
improvement compared to currently available symptomatic 
treatments. the purpose of the phase i study, initiated in 
september 2019 is to investigate the safety and tolerability of a 
single dose of lu af87908, in both healthy subjects and people 
living with alzheimer's disease (nct04149860). 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 22 / 105 
 
 
 
 
lu af28996 - phase ib study in parkinson’s disease 
commenced in october 2020 
dopaminergic neuronal loss is a key hallmark in parkinson’s 
disease and responsible for dysfunctions in motor control. lu 
af28996 is targeting continuous d1/d2 stimulation as an 
optimized approach to replace dopamine loss. the study aims to 
explore the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of 
multiple doses in subjects with parkinson’s disease with motor 
fluctuations (nct04291859). 
 
lu af82422 – phase i  
lu af82422 is a monoclonal antibody targeting preferentially 
pathological forms of the protein alpha-synuclein. abnormal 
aggregation of alpha-synuclein is believed to play a pivotal role in 
the development and progression of neurodegenerative 
disorders with synucleinopathies, e.g. parkinson’s disease, 
multiple system atrophy and dementia with lewy bodies. the 
project aims to demonstrate delay of disease progression with a 
therapeutic effect on disease burden and patient function, by 
targeting pathological alpha-synuclein with an antibody that will 
inhibit aggregation and potentially clear pathological alpha-
synuclein from the brain. the ability to offer a treatment that will 
change the course of the disease will offer a fundamental 
improvement compared to currently available symptomatic 
treatments. the purpose of the phase i study, initiated in july 
2018, is to investigate the safety and tolerability of a single dose 
of lu af82422, in healthy subjects and people living with 
parkinson’s disease (nct03611569). 
 
aripiprazole – 2-month injectable (lai) formulation  
in july 2019, lundbeck and otsuka pharmaceutical initiated a 
pivotal phase 1b study (nct04030143) to determine the safety, 
tolerability and pharmacokinetics of multiple-dose administrations 
of aripiprazole to adult participants with schizophrenia or bipolar 
i disorder. it was an open-label, multiple-dose, randomized, 
parallel-arm, multicenter study. in addition to the assessment of 
safety and tolerability, the objective was to establish the similarity 
of aripiprazole concentrations on the last day of the dosing 
interval and the exposure in the last dosing interval following the 
final administration of aripiprazole into the gluteal muscle site. 
the study showed that the new 2-month formulation, while being 
safe and tolerable, provided effective plasma concentrations of 
aripiprazole for two months. this implies that the new formulation 
can be dosed every second month compared to abilify maintena, 
which is given on a monthly basis. 
  
dosing every second month can add important benefits in terms 
of convenience for the patients and may increase treatment 
adherence as well as minimizing the risk of missing doses. it may 
also reduce the potential need for medication monitoring by 
healthcare professionals, family and caregivers. 
  
no further clinical studies are expected to be required and as a 
next step the regulatory agencies in the u.s. and eu will be 
approached. the scale-up of manufacturing capacity is 
progressing 
at 
otsuka 
pharmaceutical, 
with 
regulatory 
submission pending completion of the build and validation of the 
new manufacturing capacity at otsuka pharmaceutical. the new 
2-month formulation is an innovative addition to the lai franchise 
and has patent protection until the early part of the next decade. 
 
closed studies 
in august 2020, lundbeck announced the decision to discontinue 
the phase ii proof of concept clinical study of lu af11167 
(pde10 inhibitor) in patients with schizophrenia, who were 
experiencing persistent negative symptoms. the decision to stop 
the trial was based on the results of a futility interim analysis, 
which concluded that the trial was unlikely to achieve statistical 
significance on its primary endpoint. further analysis of the data 
showed no positive treatment effect on primary or secondary 
endpoints. the development program of pde10 has been 
terminated. 
 
in march 2020, lundbeck announced that foliglurax, a selective 
positive allosteric modulator of the glutamate 4 receptor (mglu4 
pam) for the treatment of parkinson's disease, did not meet the 
primary study endpoint in the phase iia study (ambled). there 
was no statistically significant difference in change from baseline 
in off time versus placebo after a 4-week treatment period. the 
difference in change from baseline versus placebo was 0.27h and 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 23 / 105 
 
 
 
 
0.44h for the 10 and 30 mg doses (twice daily) respectively, as 
assessed by the hauser diary. neither of the foliglurax doses 
separated from placebo on dyskinesia (secondary endpoint). the 
study showed an acceptable clinical safety and tolerability profile 
in patients with parkinson’s disease. the development program 
of foliglurax has been terminated.  
 
in addition, an investigational study with lu ag06466 for the 
treatment of adult patients with tourette syndrome (ts) was 
completed. the randomized, double blind, placebo controlled and 
with individual dose titration clinical trial enrolled 48 patients at 
multiple sites in europe. in this study the primary endpoint, the 
yale global tic severity scale (ygtss-tts), was not 
statistically significant in favouring lu ag06466 compared to 
placebo after 28 and 56 days of treatment. the study did not 
show any adverse events that prohibit development in other 
indications.  lu ag06466 will be explored in other indications 
through a series of phase 1b studies. 
  
in april 2020, lundbeck stopped the phase i study of lu af95245 
(nct04199585) as the drug did not have the desired 
pharmacokinetic profile and the safety margins were unfavorable. 
 
in november 2020, lundbeck stopped the phase i study of lu 
af88434 (pde1b) as the drug did not have the desired 
pharmacokinetic profile. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 24 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pipeline 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 25 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
product 
 
 
total  
revenue 
(dkkm) 
%  
of total 
revenue 
growth 
 
 
comment 
 
 
strategic brands 
 
 
 
 
abilify maintena® 
(aripiprazole once-monthly) 
2,271 
13% 
16% 
monthly intramuscular injection indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. lundbeck markets abilify maintena® in the u.s. in 
collaboration with otsuka pharmaceutical co., ltd. and in europe and international markets either alone or in collaboration with 
otsuka pharmaceutical co., ltd. first launched in the u.s. in 2013, hereafter launched in close to 40 countries. 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
(vortioxetine) 
3,102 
18% 
10% 
indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (mdd). lundbeck markets brintellix®/trintellix® in europe and international 
markets. in the u.s., takeda pharmaceutical company limited is our co-promotion partner. launched in the first markets in 2014 
and now available in approximately 60 countries. 
northera® 
(droxidopa) 
2,553 
14% 
10% 
indicated for the treatment of symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic hypotension in adult patients. northera® is the only u.s. fda-
approved therapy for this condition. lundbeck markets northera® in the u.s. and launched the product in 2014.  
rexulti®/rxulti®  
(brexpiprazole) 
2,620 
15% 
15% 
indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of adults with major depressive disorder (mdd) and as a treatment for adults with 
schizophrenia. launched in the u.s. in 2015 in collaboration with otsuka pharmaceutical co., ltd. hereafter in a number of other 
countries. 
vyepti® 
(eptizumab) 
93 
1% 
- 
indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults. approved by the u.s. fda on 21 february 2020 and made available on 
6 april 2020 via selected specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies.  
mature brands 
 
 
 
 
 
cipralex®/lexapro® 
(escitalopram) 
2,380 
14% 
3% 
indicated for the treatment of depression. first launched in 2002 and today available in more than 100 countries around the world. 
onfi® 
(clobazam) 
642 
4% 
(39%) 
indicated as adjunctive treatment of lennox-gastaut syndrome for people aged two years or older. launched in the u.s. in 2012. 
sabril® 
(vigabatrine) 
777 
5% 
(8%) 
indicated for the treatment of refractory complex partial seizures (rcps) and infantile spasms (is). launched in the u.s. in 2009. 
other pharmaceuticals 
2,738 
16% 
(12%) 
ebixa® (dementia), azilect® (parkinson’s disease), xenazine® (chorea), deanxit® (depression), cipramil® (depression and anxiety) 
and cisordinol® (psychosis) are among the biggest of our other mature brands. 
 
 
  
 
 
products 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 26 / 105 
 
 
 
 
risk management governance structure 
lundbeck is exposed to risks throughout the value chain, from 
the initial stages of developing innovative pharmaceuticals in our 
in-house facilities to the proven pharmaceuticals reaching the 
patients.  
 
lundbeck’s risk management processes are continually updated 
and adapted to match internal and external requirements, where 
risks related to trends, global economic developments, 
geopolitics and long-term forecasts are assessed as part of 
lundbeck’s long-term strategic planning. with this understanding 
of the wider context and an accurate and complete overview of 
lundbeck’s activities and resources, executive management has 
a clear basis for decision-making on our overall risk-exposure and 
mitigating actions.  
 
the overall responsibility of risk management lies with the board 
of directors. oversight of compliance within the established 
enterprise risk management framework is delegated to the audit 
committee. 
 
risk management framework  
enterprise risk management in lundbeck is considered an 
integral part of doing business, which is reflected in the risk 
management process.  
 
the process starts in the decentralized teams within business 
units and corporate functions, which have detailed and 
extensive knowledge of the risks within their areas of 
responsibility. they systemically identify, quantify, respond to and 
monitor risks. they are ideally placed to mitigate our risk 
exposure in the first instance.  
business units and corporate functions report to the central risk 
office on a semi-annual basis. the central risk office provides 
the risk framework and conducts interviews and workshops with 
management from business units and corporate functions, risk 
contributors and risk responsible individuals. this represents an 
integral part in the alignment of risks reported to the risk office.  
 
in cooperation with the business units and corporate functions, 
the risk office assess the likelihood of an event occurring and 
the potential impact on the group in terms of financial loss. the 
key risk overview is presented to executive management for their 
assessment and approval, before it is reported to the audit 
committee and approved by the board of directors.  
 
the corporate risk register kept by the risk office provides a 
consolidated overview of our risk exposure by detailing each risk, 
risk category and type. the risk descriptions provide details on 
the event, its current status, the status of the response and the 
likelihood and potential impact. our reporting process defines six 
risk categories: 
 
• research and development  
• market and commercial  
• supply, quality and product safety  
• it security  
• legal and compliance  
• finance  
 
lundbeck has a streamlined process covering day-to-day risk 
identification, monitoring, mitigation and reporting within 
business units and corporate functions, all the way to the final 
reporting to executive management. this process enables 
executive management to control lundbeck’s risk appetite when 
deciding strategy and practice, and when making day-to-day 
decisions. 
 
 
 
  
 
risk management 
 
lundbeck’s risk management processes 
ensure close monitoring, systematic risk 
assessment and the ability to identify, 
manage and report internal and 
external risks and opportunities in a 
changing environment. 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 27 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
key risks 
  
 
risk area 
description 
potential consequences 
mitigating actions 
research and 
development  
exposure to delays of regulatory approval 
or failure in the development of new and 
innovative medicines. exposure to delays 
is higher due to covid-19. 
increased regulatory requirements for 
clinical trials. 
data requirements from production of non-
clinical studies and clinical studies. 
 
delays or failure of new products could impact patients who 
cannot benefit from these products and decrease earnings for 
shareholders. 
delay in regulatory approval may impact the patient’s drug 
access. 
issues with data integrity can lead to delays in studies and 
production – ultimately leading to withdrawals and failure to 
gain approval.  
clinical trials are run and evaluated throughout the research and development phase. 
ongoing evaluation of the product pipeline, regulatory requirements and product 
benefit. 
robust quality management system is in place to ensure consistent quality, data 
integrity and the compliance of clinical trials and clinical safety activities. 
 
market and 
commercial  
price pressure, new legislation, regulation 
of reimbursement and healthcare reforms 
in key markets, etc. 
limited access to physician offices due to 
covid-19.  
 
market restrictions could impact patients’ access to lundbeck 
products. 
changes in market conditions and health care reforms could 
affect the pricing landscape as well as rebates and discounts. 
restrictions due to covid-19 could impact patients’ access to 
physicians. 
 
understanding the price development in main markets. 
working with health care authorities around the world to document the value of our 
pharmaceuticals. 
monitor political developments and requirements. 
 
supply, quality 
and product 
safety 
disruption of production or supply or 
unpredictable demand and stock-out. 
loss of licenses to manufacture or sell 
pharmaceuticals. 
defects in product quality or safety. 
 
product shortage, not giving patients needed access to the 
pharmaceuticals they require. 
 
systems, policies and procedures are in place to ensure product supply, quality and 
safety. 
dual sourcing strategy and high level of safety stock of key products. 
robust pharmacovigilance system. 
it security 
cyber-attacks and cyber fraud. 
system down-time. 
 
disruption or compromise of it security could affect all parts 
of lundbeck’s operations and product supply to patients. 
data loss. 
 
it policies and procedures are in place to safeguard processes and data. 
cyber-attack testing is being performed on a regular basis. 
annual testing of it disaster recovery plan. 
lundbeck has also purchased a cyber insurance. 
 
legal and 
compliance  
intellectual property rights. 
non-compliance 
with 
laws, 
industry 
standards, regulations and our code of 
conduct. 
exposure to legal claims or investigations. 
 
infringement of intellectual property rights could decrease 
earnings for shareholders. 
loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights 
could decrease earnings for shareholders. 
non-compliance with laws, industry standards, regulations, or 
our code of conduct could affect our ‘license to operate’ and 
impact our reputation and earnings for shareholders. 
 
policies are in place to safeguard intellectual property rights. 
the code of conduct is pivotal in sustaining our compliance culture. annual training 
is provided to all employees. 
third parties are committed to observe our legal and ethical standards in mutually 
binding agreements and are subject to monitoring. 
financial  
fluctuations in exchange rates incl. impact 
from currency devaluations. 
fluctuations in interest rates. 
 
lundbeck’s cash flow and earnings could be impacted in 
cases of fluctuations in key currencies. 
 
monitoring the financial exposure and hedging a significant part of lundbeck’s 
currency risk up to 18 months in advance. 
issuing debt with fixed interest and fixing interest rates on floating debt with interest 
rate swaps or similar derivatives. 
exchange rate risks and interest risks are managed within the treasury policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 28 / 105 
 
 
 
 
strategic imperative 
sustainability is an imperative to lundbeck and an integral part of 
our strategy and culture. 
 
lundbeck’s sustainability activities aim to mitigate risks and 
adverse impacts related to our business activities and contribute 
to solving societal challenges where we can. the sustainable 
development goals (sdg) are the blueprint to achieve a better 
and more sustainable future for all. at lundbeck, we want to 
contribute in partnerships to address global challenges where we 
can make the most difference. 
 
our most material sustainability issues are reflected in the sdgs 
that we significantly impact. our biggest contribution to 
sustainable development – and where we bring most value to the 
communities we serve – is our medical treatments and the good 
health and wellbeing they bring to people. closely related to this 
is being compliant in all aspects of patient safety and taking a 
strict stance on anti-corruption in our collaborations with business 
partners, healthcare professionals and regulators. 
  
our other material issues include taking a leading role in climate 
action, environmental management in general, and promoting an 
ethical, safe and inclusive culture in our entire value chain. 
 
managing sustainability 
executive management governs the sustainability strategy and 
review progress on targets and approves new initiatives in 
quarterly sessions. 
 
we continuously set ambitious targets, report on progress on the 
targets and disclose a set of externally audited non-financial 
indicators across all areas of corporate sustainability and 
business ethics compliance. 
   
the table on the following page provides an overview of our 
current sustainability targets. more detailed information about our 
sustainability policies, efforts and results is available in our 
sustainability report and on www.lundbeck.com*.  
sustainability review of 2020 
our activities related to access to health in 2020 was guided by 
two targets. we achieved our goal to engage all lundbeck offices 
in local world mental health day activities, this year with a higher 
degree of digital events and activities due to covid-19. our other 
completed target was to establish a product donation partnership 
to low and middle-income countries. this is the first new initiative 
in our access to brain health 2030 strategy focused on 
accessibility for the most vulnerable.  
 
the 2020 target for business ethics was that all employees at 
work globally should complete the annual code of conduct 
training. this was achieved with a 99.8% completion rate. in 2020, 
we also established a new data model to monitor proportion of 
healthcare professionals supporting disclosure of collaborations. 
 
to reduce carbon emissions, we have over the last years 
increasingly replaced conventional fuel oil with bio-oil at our 
facilities. the emissions from our purchased energy was also 
reduced in 2020. in total, we reduced our carbon emissions with 
14% compared to 2019, overachieving our 2020 target of 4%. we 
have not purchased certificates of origin in 2020 to achieve this 
result. 
 
the target for recycling of solvents was achieved, as we achieved 
68%. we did not achieve our target of zero environmental 
incidents last year, as we had two such incidents.  
 
lundbeck maintained a gender split for people managers globally 
at 42/58% and consider our diversity & inclusion target of equal 
gender split achieved.  
 
we are happy to report a decrease in accident frequency of 11% 
in 2020 compared to 2019, due to preventive actions and less 
activities on our sites caused by covid-19 measures. we were 
however not successful in reaching our 2020 target of a 
frequency of lost time accident rate below 5, with a rate for the 
full year of 5.5. 
 
 
 
  
 
sustainability & 
compliance 
 
lundbeck’s sustainability activities aim 
to mitigate risks and adverse impacts 
related to our business activities and 
contribute to solving societal challenges 
where we can. we remain committed to 
the un global compact principles and 
contribute to addressing seven of the 
sustainable development goals.  
 
in this section we present a short 
summary of aspirations, management, 
due diligence and targets. 
 
we publish an annual sustainability 
report at the same time as the release 
of the annual report. here you can find 
detailed information and an esg 
(environmental, social and 
governance) section for analysts and 
investors. our mandatory annual 
statutory reporting on sustainability 
and diversity of management in 
accordance with section 99(a), 99(b) 
and 107(d) in the danish financial 
statements act can also be found in our 
sustainability report*.  
 
*  
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability  
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 29 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sustainability 
targets 
  
 
issue 
 
2021 target 
 
2020 target 
 
 
 
access to brain health 
 
ensure all disease awareness sponsorships within psychiatry measurably 
support suicide prevention or mental health awareness 
 
donate treatment for at least 900 patients through new product donation 
partnerships in low- and middle-income countries 
 
engage all lundbeck offices in local world mental health day activities (●) 
 
establish a product donation partnership (●) 
 
sdg 3 
business ethics 
 
annual code of conduct training completed by all employees at work globally 
  
increase proportion of healthcare professionals supporting disclosure of 
collaborations compared to the previous reporting year 
 
annual code of conduct training completed by all employees at work globally (●) 
 
work to increase proportion of healthcare professionals supporting disclosure of 
collaborations compared to the previous reporting year (●) 
 
sdg 16 
climate action 
 
reduce total carbon footprint across own operations, supply and 
distribution in line with our science-based target* 
reduce co2 emission by 4% in 2020 compared to 2019 (●)  
 
obtain ‘science based targets initiative (sbti)’ approval of new climate target (●) 
 
sdg 13 
environmental 
management  
 
recycle 60% of the solvents used in chemical production 
 
recycle 63% of all general waste 
recycle 55% of the solvents used in chemical production (●) 
 
zero environmental incidents (○) 
 
sdg 12 
diversity & inclusion 
build an inclusive organization with a first initiative focusing on unconscious 
bias across the organization 
 
maintain an overall equal gender split for people managers globally 
 
strive to maintain an overall equal gender split for people managers globally (●) 
 
sdg 5  
sdg 10 
health & safety 
reduce lost time accident frequency to ≤ 5 
reduce lost time accident frequency to ≤ 5 (○) 
 
sdg 8 
 
* we will report progress annually on the approved 15-year targets in scope 1 & 2 (own operations and energy use) and scope 3 (emissions from supply, services, distribution, and more). 
 
(●) achieved 
(○) not achieved 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 30 / 105 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck has established a business ethics compliance 
structure consisting of the elements needed to ensure that we are 
doing the right thing. we continually improve processes and 
sustain a compliance culture. the four active elements are 
documents, training, monitoring and governance.  
 
code of conduct 
as the top-level document, the code of conduct conveys 
lundbeck’s commitments and the expectations to our employees 
for areas that are critical to the pharmaceutical industry. 
 
the global and local procedures in the code of conduct contain 
more operational requirements and good practices. lundbeck 
maintains a good practice (gxp) quality management system in 
relevant areas to control risks, continually improve processes and 
meet regulatory expectations. 
 
lundbeck wants to make sure that the requirements are 
understood, and people know how to act. managers and 
employees who have specific responsibilities receive relevant 
training. all employees are annually requested to complete the 
corporate code of conduct training. to support the training, we 
continuously communicate through internal campaigns to 
maintain awareness and engage our employees.  
 
our audits and monitoring efforts aim to validate the 
understanding of the requirements and capture suggestions for 
improvements of processes and controls. lundbeck’s compliance 
visits aim to provide feedback with corrective and preventive 
actions to ensure local management ownership and follow-up. 
lundbeck’s code of conduct compliance committee represents 
executive management and relevant business functions. they 
meet regularly to maintain oversight and once yearly perform the 
code of conduct risk management review to initiate needed 
improvements. further, the chief compliance officer provides 
relevant updates at meetings in the audit committee. 
 
compliance culture built on an open dialogue 
we encourage everyone to have ongoing dialogue on 
compliance and ethics with their colleagues and manager. 
however, we realize that some questions, dilemmas or concerns 
might not be discussed openly. 
 
people who are uncertain of how to act or concerned that a matter 
is not being properly addressed are encouraged to seek advice 
in our corporate functions, e.g. hr, finance, legal or 
compliance. 
 
anyone within or outside lundbeck can always report serious 
compliance concerns in full confidentiality to lundbeck’s 
compliance hotline*. concerns raised in good faith are protected 
by lundbeck’s non-retaliation policy. 
 
all reported concerns will be investigated by lundbeck experts. 
the reporter can anonymously communicate with the investigator 
through the compliance hotline. concerns that end up being 
substantiated are followed by proportionate corrective and 
preventive actions. 
 
 
 
 
*  
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/compliance-hotline  
business ethics and 
code of conduct 
  
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 31 / 105 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck has a two-tier board structure consisting of the board 
of directors and the executive management. the two bodies 
are separated, and no person serves as a member of both.  
 
the board of directors has nine members, of which six are 
elected at the annual general meeting for a one-year term and 
three are elected by lundbeck’s employees for a four-year term. 
the current members of the board of directors** bring deep 
industry knowledge and solid top management experience to 
lundbeck, which are essential for the board to perform its tasks. 
 
lundbeck’s board of directors is responsible for approving the 
corporate strategy and its implementation, setting goals for 
executive management, and for ensuring that members of 
executive management and other senior managers have the right 
qualifications. 
the 
board 
of 
directors 
also 
evaluates 
management performance and remuneration. furthermore, the 
board of directors has the overall responsibility for ensuring that 
adequate internal and external controls are in place, and for 
identifying 
and 
addressing 
any 
relevant 
risks. 
these 
responsibilities are defined in the danish companies act and 
stipulated in the rules of procedures for the board of directors. 
 
the board of directors regularly evaluates our strategy, the 
business, our performance, the financial strategies and policies, 
and ensures that day-to-day management is carried out in 
accordance with such policies. 
 
the board of directors has established a self-evaluation 
procedure covering, among other things, board composition, 
contribution and results, board agenda and discussions, 
cooperation between the board of directors and executive 
management, committee work and structure.  
 
the 2020 evaluation built on the previous year’s, with all 
members of the board of directors and executive management 
participating. it was conducted with support from an external 
provider and concluded that there was a high level of satisfaction 
with the collaboration and interaction between the board of 
directors and executive management, describing it as 
transparent, constructive, effective and involving. the board 
represents a broad set of competencies and knowledge relevant 
to the company and its future strategic path. we believe that its 
composition can be improved by adding even more relevant 
scientific expertise, an objective that will be followed up on in 
2021. to meet this objective, the board is currently working 
towards expanding the scientific knowledge of the board.  
 
more details regarding the work performed by the board of 
directors, the evaluation procedure and results hereof can be 
found at www.lundbeck.com***. also, the remuneration of 
lundbeck’s executive management and board of directors can 
be found at www.lundbeck.com****. 
 
disclosure regarding change of control  
the eu takeover bids directive, as partially implemented in the 
danish financial statements act, requires listed companies to 
disclose information about significant agreements that may be 
affected in case of a completed take-over bid, in particular in 
relation to disclosure of change-of-control provisions. 
 
lundbeck discloses that the group has a major partnership 
agreement in place under which an acquiring entity must divest 
any competing product according to an agreed process and in the 
absence of such divesture, lundbeck’s partner may terminate the 
agreement. the lundbeck group may be met with demands for 
repayment on its debt portfolio should lundbeckfond invest a/s 
hold less than 50% of the share capital or voting rights in h. 
lundbeck a/s (change of control).  
 
in the event lundbeck is acquired or merges, certain executive 
management members may, depending on the impact on their 
position, be entitled to terminate employment with lundbeck with 
a three (3) months’ notice and receive a compensation of up to 
eighteen (18) months remuneration. 
 
given the ownership structure of lundbeck the risks are 
considered remote. for information about the ownership 
structure of lundbeck, see page 36. 
 
 
  
 
corporate 
governance 
 
corporate governance concerns the 
way lundbeck is managed and 
controlled, while creating value for both 
the company and our stakeholders. 
more information on the mandatory 
annual corporate governance report is 
disclosed on www.lundbeck.com* in 
accordance with section 107(b) in the 
danish financial statements act. 
 
* 
https://www.lundbeck.com/upload/global/files/pdf/corporate_governance/2020/corp
orate_governance_report.pdf    
 
**  
detailed description of the board members and their competencies and 
qualifications can be found on https://www.lundbeck.com/global/about-us/corporate-
governance/board-of-directors/board-members   
 
*** 
detailed description of the board of directors’ work, evaluation procedure and 
results can be found on https://www.lundbeck.com/global/about-us/corporate-
governance/board-of-directors/board-tasks   
 
**** 
detailed description of the remuneration can be found on 
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/about-us/corporate-governance/remuneration  
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 32 / 105 
 
 
 
 
deborah dunsire 
president and ceo 
 • 
born 1962 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2018 
 
directorships 
• 
alexion pharmaceuticals inc. (m)  
• 
ultragenyx pharmaceutical inc. (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
3,500 
 
 
peter anastasiou ** 
executive vice president, north america 
 • 
born 1970 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2009 
 
directorships 
• 
phrma (pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of 
america) (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
lars bang 
executive vice president, product development & supply  
 • 
born 1962 
• 
joined lundbeck in 1988 
 
directorships 
• 
claudio bidco a/s (m) 
• 
claudio holdco a/s (m) 
• 
fertin pharma a/s (m) 
• 
o.b. holding aps (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
42,792 
 
 
anders gÖtzsche 
executive vice president, cfo 
 • 
born 1967 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2007 
 
directorships 
• 
obsidian therapeutics (m) 
• 
dfds (m) 
• 
rosborg møbler a/s (c) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
42,796 
 
 
 
  
 
executive 
management* 
per 31.12 2020 
 
c = chairman, dc = deputy chairman, m = member 
 
* 
for more information about executive management and their competencies, please 
visit 
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/about-us/corporate-governance/executive-
management  
 
**  
peter anastasiou (executive vice president for north america), elise hauge 
(executive vice president, people & communication) and keld flintholm jørgensen 
(executive vice president, corporate strategy & business development) participate 
in the executive management in their respective roles but are not members of the 
executive management as registered with the danish business authority 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 33 / 105 
 
 
 
 
elise hauge ** 
executive vice president, people & communication 
 • 
born 1967 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2019 
 
directorships 
• 
cbs executive fonden (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
1,225 
 
 
keld flintholm jØrgensen ** 
executive vice president, corporate strategy & business 
development 
 • 
born 1971 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2019 
 
directorships 
• 
none 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
per johan luthman 
executive vice president, research & development 
 • 
born 1959 
• 
joined lundbeck in 2019 
 
directorships 
• 
none 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
jacob tolstrup 
executive vice president, commercial operations 
 • 
born 1972 
• 
joined lundbeck in 1999 
 
directorships 
• 
pharmacosmos a/s (c) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
257 
 
 
per 31.12 2020 
 
c = chairman, dc = deputy chairman, m = member 
 
** 
peter anastasiou (executive vice president for north america), elise hauge 
(executive vice president, people & communication) and keld flintholm jørgensen 
(executive vice president, corporate strategy & business development) participate 
in the executive management in their respective roles but are not members of the 
executive management as registered with the danish business authority 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 34 / 105 
 
 
 
 
lars sØren rasmussen 
chairman 
 • 
born 1959 
• 
elected at the 2013 annual general meeting 
• 
considered independent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
audit committee (m) 
• 
remuneration & nomination committee (c) 
 
directorships 
• 
coloplast a/s (c) 
• 
igenomix s.l. (c) 
• 
william demant holding a/s (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
20,000 
 
 
lene skole-sØrensen 
deputy chairman 
 • 
born 1959 
• 
ceo, lundbeck foundation  
• 
elected at the 2015 annual general meeting 
• 
considered dependent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
remuneration & nomination committee (m) 
• 
scientific committee (m) 
 
directorships 
• 
alk-abelló a/s (dc) 
• 
falck a/s (dc) 
• 
tryg a/s (m) 
• 
tryg forsikring a/s (m) 
• 
Ørsted a/s (dc) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
8,808 
henrik andersen 
 
 • 
born 1967 
• 
group president and ceo, vestas wind systems a/s 
• 
elected at the 2018 annual general meeting 
• 
considered independent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
audit committee (c) 
 
directorships 
• 
the investment committee of maj invest equity 4 k/s (m) 
• 
the investment committee of maj invest equity 5 k/s (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
3,500 
 
 
jeffrey berkowitz 
 
 • 
born 1966 
• 
ceo, real endpoints  
• 
elected at the 2018 annual general meeting 
• 
considered independent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
remuneration & nomination committee (m) 
• 
scientific committee (m) 
 
directorships 
• 
esperion therapeutics, inc. (m) 
• 
zealand pharma a/s (m) 
• 
uniphar plc (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
  
 
board of 
directors* 
per 31.12 2020 
 
c = chairman, dc = deputy chairman, m = member 
 
*  
for more information about the board of directors and their competencies, please 
visit 
https://www.lundbeck.com/global/about-us/corporate-governance/board-of-
directors/board-members  
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 35 / 105 
 
 
 
 
lars erik holmqvist 
 
 • 
born 1959 
• 
elected at the 2015 annual general meeting 
• 
considered dependent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
audit committee (m) 
 
directorships 
• 
alk-abelló a/s (m) 
• 
biovica international ab (c) 
• 
lundbeck foundation (m) 
• 
naka uk topco ltd. (m) 
• 
tecan ag (m) 
• 
vitrolife ab (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
15,000 
 
 
jeremy max levin 
 
 • 
born 1953 
• 
ceo and chairman, ovid therapeutics 
• 
elected at the 2017 annual general meeting 
• 
considered independent 
 
lundbeck committees 
• 
scientific committee (c) 
 
directorships 
• 
bio (biotechnology innovation organization in the u.s.) (c) 
• 
ovid therapeutics inc. (c) 
• 
opthea ltd. (c) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
rikke kruse andreasen 
 
 • 
born 1971 
• 
senior laboratory technician 
• 
elected by employees in 2018 
 
holding of shares 
• 
5 
 
 
henrik sindal jensen 
 
 • 
born 1969 
• 
director, corporate business development & licensing 
• 
elected by employees in 2018 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
ludovic tranholm otterbein 
 
 • 
born 1973 
• 
director, research informatics & operations 
• 
elected by employees in 2018 
 
directorships 
• 
lundbeck foundation (m) 
 
holding of shares 
• 
none 
 
 
 
per 31.12 2020 
 
c = chairman, dc = deputy chairman, m = member 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 36 / 105 
 
 
 
 
turnover 
total trading in lundbeck shares amounted to dkk 24.6 billion in 
2020, while the average daily turnover was dkk 110 million, an 
increase of 22% compared to 2019. a total of 109 million shares 
were traded in 2020, equivalent to 435,658 shares per day, an 
increase of 28% compared to 2019. 
 
lundbeck has an american depository receipt (adr) level 1 
program. the adr volume increased slightly during 2020. at the 
end of 2020, 370,011 adrs were outstanding, representing 0.2% 
of the total shares or 0.6% of the free float.  
 
share capital 
the lundbeck share is listed on the copenhagen stock 
exchange, nasdaq copenhagen. all shares belong to the same 
class and rank equally. the shares are negotiable and there are 
no restrictions on their transferability. each share has a nominal 
value of dkk 5 and carries one vote. at the end of 2020, 
lundbeck’s total share capital amounted to dkk 995,741,110, 
which is equivalent to 199,148,222 shares. 
 
composition of shareholders 
according to the lundbeck share register, the company had 
approximately 52,000 shareholders at the end of 2020, 
representing approximately 99% of the outstanding shares. the 
lundbeck foundation (lundbeckfond invest a/s) is the 
company’s largest shareholder, holding 137,351,918 shares at 
the end of 2020, which equals 69% of the share capital and voting 
rights. the lundbeck foundation is the only shareholder to report 
a holding in excess of 5% of the share capital. at the end of 2020, 
investors in north america held 32% of the free float compared 
to 45% in 2019; european (excl. danish) investors held 31% 
compared to 31% in 2019; danish investors held 14% compared 
to 7% in 2019; rest of the world held unchanged 4% and other 
investors, incl. private, held 19% compared to 13% in 2019. 
 
in order to fund our long-term share-based incentive programs, 
lundbeck acquired treasury shares in 2020 at a value of dkk 29 
million (dkk 20 million in 2019), corresponding to 114,000 shares 
(69,000 shares in 2019). 
 
at the end of 2020, lundbeck’s board of directors and executive 
management held a total of 137,878 lundbeck shares compared 
to 130,339 lundbeck shares by the end of 2019. the total 
number of shares in 2020 corresponds to 0.07% of the total 
shares outstanding. 
 
lundbeck and the equity market 
through our investor relations function, lundbeck aspires to 
provide a fair and accurate view of its activities by providing 
ongoing 
communications 
with 
prospective 
and 
existing 
shareholders and equity analysts. through regular meetings and 
dialogue, we convey relevant information about our vision and 
goals, business areas and financial development.  
 
in 2020, investor relations activity was materially impacted by the 
global pandemic with lock-downs and travel restrictions. 
lundbeck’s investor relations team held more than 300 
meetings most of them based on digital platforms. lundbeck has 
also participated/presented at 12 investor conferences, most of 
which were virtual. 
lundbeck is currently covered by 18 sell-side analysts, incl. the 
major global investment banks that regularly produce research 
reports on lundbeck. a list of analysts covering lundbeck is 
available on www.lundbeck.com*. 
after the announcement of our interim and full-year reports, 
members of lundbeck’s executive management and investor 
relations team always conduct roadshows to inform investors 
and analysts about the company’s latest developments. our 
investor 
presentations 
are 
available 
for 
download 
on 
www.lundbeck.com**. 
 
  
 
the lundbeck 
share 
 
2020 was a very eventful year for 
lundbeck with solid financial results 
and progression against our expand 
and invest to grow strategy while 
operating during a global pandemic.  
 
the lundbeck share price began the 
year at dkk 254.40 (closing price end 
2019), reached a year high of dkk 
302.4 (5 february), recorded a year 
low of dkk 178.15 (3 november) and 
ended the year at dkk 208.80. this is a 
decrease of 18% for the year. in 
comparison, the danish omxc25 index 
increased by 34%, while the msci 
european pharmaceutical index 
increased by 4%. 
 
* 
 https://investor.lundbeck.com/share/analysts  
 
** 
 https://investor.lundbeck.com/download-center  
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 37 / 105 
 
 
 
 
  
 
composition of ownership, end 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
stock performance 2016-2020  
 
 
 
 
 
composition of free float, end 2020  
 
 
 
 
stock performance 2020  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
financial calendar 2021 
23 march 2021 
annual general meeting 
26 march 2021 
dividends for 2020 at the disposal of 
shareholders 
 
 
11 may 2021 
financial statements for the first 
three months of 2021 
18 august 2021 
financial statements for the first  six 
months of 2021 
10 november 2021 
financial statements for the first 
nine months of 2021 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 38 / 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk) 
7.95 
11.64 
17.88 
28.14 
earnings per share, diluted (deps) (dkk) 
7.95 
11.64 
17.87 
28.10 
cash flow from operating activities per share, diluted (dkk) 
19.31 
13.13 
30.09 
20.44 
net asset value per share, diluted (dkk) 
85.42 
84.45 
84.67 
76.03 
proposed dividend per share (dkk) 
2.50 
4.10 
12.00 
8.00 
dividend payout ratio (%) 
31 
35 
67 
29 
dividend yield (%) 
1.2 
1.6 
4.2 
2.5 
share price, year-end (dkk) 
208.80 
254.4 
285.4 
315.0 
share price, high (dkk) 
302.4 
306.9 
475.9 
411.8 
share price, low (dkk) 
178.15 
217.2 
257.0 
315.0 
price/earnings, diluted (dkk) 
26.25 
21.86 
15.97 
11.21 
price/cash flow, diluted (dkk) 
10.82 
19.38 
9.48 
15.41 
price/net asset value, diluted (dkk)  
2.44 
3.01 
3.37 
4.14 
market capitalization, year-end (dkkm) 
41,582 
50,660 
56,825 
62,700 
annual trading, million shares 
108.9  
84.4 
99.2 
107.7 
average trading per trading day, thousands of shares 
435.7 
340.4 
400.1 
429.2 
 
 
share ratios 
  
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
 
    contents  
 39 / 105 
 
 
 
 
share facts 
  
 
 
number of shares, year-end 
199,148,222 
share capital, year-end (dkk) 
995,741,110 
nominal value per share (dkk) 
5 
holding of treasury shares 
449,896 
free float (%) 
31 
ipo 
18 june 1999 
stock exchange 
nasdaq copenhagen 
isin code 
dk0010287234 
ticker 
lun.co (reuters), lun dc (bloomberg) 
adr program 
sponsored level 1 program 
adr trading code 
hluyy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 40 /105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
statement of profit or loss (dkkm) 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
revenue 
17,672 
17,036 
18,117 
17,234 
15,634 
  
  
research and development costs 
4,545 
3,116 
3,277 
2,705 
2,967 
  
  
reversal of impairment loss 
- 
- 
- 
3,766 
- 
  
  
operating profit before depreciation and amortization (ebitda) 
4,783 
4,823 
6,436 
9,190 
3,846 
  
  
profit from operations (ebit) 
1,990 
3,153 
4,846 
8,174 
2,292 
  
  
net financials, expenses 
84 
127 
12 
131 
135 
  
  
profit before tax 
1,906 
3,026 
4,834 
8,043 
2,157 
  
  
profit for the year 
1,581 
2,313 
3,553 
5,560 
1,211 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
summary for 
the group 
2016-2020  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
assets (dkkm) 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
non-current assets 
25,924 
29,095 
13,944 
13,893 
12,686 
  
  
inventories 
2,163 
2,204 
1,753 
1,376 
1,528 
  
  
receivables 
4,018 
3,822 
3,261 
3,791 
3,779 
  
  
cash, bank balances and securities 
3,924 
3,012 
6,635 
3,677 
2,217 
  
  
total assets 
36,029 
38,133 
25,593 
22,737 
20,210 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity and liabilities (dkkm) 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
equity 
16,973 
16,782 
16,833 
15,117 
9,694 
  
  
non-current liabilities 
9,044 
11,071 
1,184 
1,141 
2,740 
  
  
current liabilities 
10,012 
10,280 
7,576 
6,479 
7,776 
  
  
total equity and liabilities 
36,029 
38,133 
25,593 
22,737 
20,210 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
statement of cash flows (dkkm) 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016 
  
  
cash flows from operating activities 
3,837 
2,609 
5,981 
4,045 
3,126 
  
  
cash flows from investing activities 
(467) 
(7,755) 
(2,907) 
(1,830) 
(337)   
  
cash flows from operating and investing activities (free cash flow) 
3,370 
(5,146) 
3,074 
2,215 
2,789 
  
  
cash flows from financing activities 
(2,394) 
4,548 
(1,607) 
(2,235) 
(2,006)   
  
interest-bearing debt, cash, bank balances and securities, net, year-end 
 – net cash/(net debt) 
(4,106) 
(6,566) 
6,635 
3,677 
326 
  
  
  
  
  
1) 2017-2019 have been restated to reflect the reversal of an impairment loss on the rexulti® product rights in 2017. see note 7 intangible assets. 
  
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 41 /105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
key figures 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
ebit margin (%) 
11.3 
18.5 
26.7 
47.4 
14.7 
  
  
research and development ratio (%) 
25.7 
18.3 
18.1 
15.7 
19.0 
  
  
return on equity (%) 
9.4 
13.8 
22.2 
44.8 
13.1 
  
  
equity ratio (%) 
47.1 
44.0 
65.8 
66.5 
48.0 
  
  
invested capital (dkkm) 
21,079 
23,348 
10,198 
11,440 
9,368 
  
  
net debt/ebitda 
0.9 
1.4 
(1.0) 
(0.7) 
(0.1)   
  
effective tax rate (%) 
17.0 
23.6 
26.5 
30.9 
43.9 
  
  
purchase of intangible assets, gross (dkkm) 
114 
88 
1,149 
480 
104 
  
  
purchase of property, plant and equipment, gross (dkkm) 
364 
356 
300 
245 
238 
  
  
purchase of financial assets, gross (dkkm) 
17 
18 
1,524 
1,509 
16 
  
  
average number of employees 
5,717 
5,475 
5,060 
4,980 
5,120 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
share data² 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
number of shares for the calculation of eps (millions) 
198.7 
198.7 
198.7 
197.5 
197.2 
  
  
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk)³ 
7.95 
11.64 
17.88 
28.14 
6.11 
  
  
earnings per share, diluted (deps) (dkk)³ 
7.95 
11.64 
17.87 
28.10 
6.11 
  
  
proposed dividend per share (dkk) 
2.50 
4.10 
12.00 
8.00 
2.45 
  
  
cash flows from operating activities per share, diluted (dkk)³ 
19.31 
13.13 
30.09 
20.44 
15.77 
  
  
net asset value per share, diluted (dkk)³ 
85.42 
84.45 
84.67 
76.03 
48.86 
  
  
market capitalization (dkkm) 
41,582 
50,660 
56,825 
62,700 
56,776 
  
  
price/earnings, diluted (dkk)³ 
26.25 
21.86 
15.97 
11.21 
47.04 
  
  
price/cash flow, diluted (dkk)³ 
10.82 
19.38 
9.48 
15.41 
18.22 
  
  
price/net asset value, diluted (dkk)³ 
2.44 
3.01 
3.37 
4.14 
5.88 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
1) 2017-2019 have been restated to reflect the reversal of an impairment loss on the rexulti® product rights in 2017. see note 7 intangible assets. 
  
  
2) the calculation is based on a share denomination of dkk 5. 
  
  
3) comparative figures have been restated using a factor 0.99997 for the effect of employees’ exercise of warrants. 
  
  
 
summary for  
the group  
2016-2020  
continued 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 42 /105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
definitions 
 
 
 
interest-bearing debt 
debt and financial instruments (including financial leases) carrying interest 
 
 
interest-bearing net cash 
cash, bank balances and securities less interest-bearing debt 
 
 
ebit margin2 
profit from operations as a percentage of revenue 
 
 
ebitda 
profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and gain on divestment of properties  
 
return on equity2 
net profit/(loss) for the year as a percentage of shareholders’ equity (average) 
 
 
equity ratio2 
shareholders’ equity, year-end, as a percentage of total assets 
 
 
invested capital 
shareholders’ equity, year-end, plus net interest-bearing debt 
 
 
net debt 
interest bearing debt less cash, bank balances and securities 
 
 
net debt/ebitda2 
net interest-bearing debt divided by ebitda 
 
 
earnings per share, basic (eps)2 
net profit/(loss) for the year divided by average number of shares, excl. treasury shares 
 
 
earnings per share, diluted (deps)2 
net profit/(loss) for the year divided by average number of shares, excl. treasury shares, 
incl. warrants, fully diluted 
 
 
cash flows from operating activities per share, 
diluted2 
cash flows from operating activities divided by average number of shares, excl. treasury 
shares, incl. warrants, fully diluted 
 
 
net asset value per share, diluted 
shareholder’s equity, year-end, divided by number of shares, year-end, excl. treasury 
shares, incl. warrants, fully diluted 
 
 
market capitalization2 
total number of shares, year-end, multiplied by the official price quoted on nasdaq 
copenhagen, year-end 
 
 
price/earnings, diluted2 
the official price quoted on nasdaq copenhagen, year-end, divided by earnings per 
share, diluted 
 
 
price/cash flows, diluted2 
the official price quoted on nasdaq copenhagen, year-end, divided by cash flows from 
operating activities per share, diluted 
 
 
price/net asset value, diluted 
the official price quoted on nasdaq copenhagen, year-end, divided by net asset value 
per share, diluted 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
ebitda calculation (dkkm) 
2020 
2019¹ 
2018¹ 
2017¹ 
2016 
  
  
ebit 
1,990 
3,153 
4,846 
8,174 
2,292 
  
  
+ depreciation, amortization and impairment losses 
2,793 
1,670 
1,638 
1,258 
1,554 
  
  
- gain on divestment of properties recognized in other operating expenses, 
net 
- 
- 
(48) 
(242) 
- 
  
  
ebitda 
4,783 
4,823 
6,436 
9,190 
3,846 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) 2017-2019 have been restated to reflect the reversal of an impairment loss on the rexulti® product rights in 2017. see note 7 intangible assets. 
  
  
2) definitions according to the danish finance society's recommendations & financial ratios. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
summary for  
the group  
2016-2020  
continued 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 43 / 105   
 
 
 
 
notes 
1 basis of preparation 
48 
2 revenue and segment information 
49 
3 employee costs 
50 
4 other operating expenses, net 
52 
5 net financials 
52 
6 income taxes 
52 
7 intangible assets 
56 
8 property, plant and equipment 
59 
9 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
60 
10 inventories 
60 
11 trade and other receivables 
60 
12 cash resources 
61 
13 equity 
62 
14 retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations 
64 
15 incentive programs 
66 
16 provisions 
68 
17 contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
68 
18 bank debt, bond debt and borrowings 
70 
19 other payables 
71 
20 financial instruments 
71 
21 audit fees 
75 
22 contractual obligations 
76 
23 related parties 
76 
24 list of subsidiaries 
77 
25 subsequent events 
78 
26 significant accounting policies 
79 
 
 
 
  
 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
 
contents 
statement of profit or loss 
44 
statement of comprehensive income 
44 
statement of financial position 
45 
statement of changes in equity 
46 
statement of cash flows 
47 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 44 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
revenue 
2 
17,672 
17,036 
cost of sales 
3 
4,166 
3,840 
gross profit 
  
13,506 
13,196 
  
  
  
  
sales and distribution costs 
3 
5,946 
5,514 
administrative expenses 
3 
966 
899 
research and development costs 
3 
4,545 
3,116 
other operating expenses, net 
4 
59 
514 
profit from operations (ebit) 
  
1,990 
3,153 
  
  
  
  
financial income 
5 
277 
74 
financial expenses 
5 
361 
201 
profit before tax 
  
1,906 
3,026 
  
  
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
6 
325 
713 
profit for the year 
  
1,581 
2,313 
  
    
  
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk) 
13 
7.95 
11.64 
earnings per share, diluted (deps) (dkk) 
13 
7.95 
11.64 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
profit for the year 
  
1,581 
2,313 
  
    
  
actuarial gains/losses 
14 
(1) 
(61) 
tax  
13 
1 
6 
items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 
  
- 
(55) 
  
  
  
  
exchange rate gains/losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries 
  
(1,007) 
135 
exchange rate gains/losses on additions to net investments in foreign 
subsidiaries 
  
(21) 
(136) 
hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries 
20 
356 
62 
deferred exchange gains/losses, hedging 
20 
313 
(337) 
deferred fair value of interest rate swaps 
20 
(90) 
8 
exchange gains/losses, hedging (transferred to revenue) 
20 
(5) 
322 
exchange gains/losses, hedging (transferred to intangible assets) 
20 
- 
(17) 
tax 
13 
(124) 
22 
items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 
  
(578) 
59 
  
    
  
other comprehensive income 
  
(578) 
4 
  
  
  
  
comprehensive income 
  
1,003 
2,317 
 
 
 
 
statement of profit or loss 
1 january – 31 december 
 
statement of comprehensive income  
1 january – 31 december 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 45 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
goodwill 
7 
4,845 
5,278 
product rights 
7 
17,632 
20,732 
other rights 
7 
90 
114 
projects in progress 
7 
171 
131 
intangible assets 
  
22,738 
26,255 
  
  
  
  
land and buildings 
8 
1,219 
1,205 
plant and machinery 
8 
444 
438 
other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment 
8 
122 
136 
prepayments and assets under construction 
8 
492 
419 
right-of-use assets 
9 
456 
476 
property, plant and equipment 
  
2,733 
2,674 
  
    
  
other financial assets 
  
116 
60 
other receivables 
  
104 
101 
deferred tax assets 
6 
233 
5 
financial assets 
  
453 
166 
  
  
  
  
non-current assets 
  
25,924 
29,095 
  
  
  
  
inventories 
10 
2,163 
2,204 
  
  
  
  
trade receivables 
11 
2,553 
2,768 
income taxes receivable 
  
217 
464 
other receivables 
11 
868 
388 
prepayments 
  
380 
202 
receivables 
  
4,018 
3,822 
  
  
  
  
securities 
12 
- 
4 
  
  
  
  
cash and bank balances 
12 
3,924 
3,008 
  
  
  
  
current assets 
  
10,105 
9,038 
  
  
  
  
assets 
  
36,029 
38,133 
  
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
share capital 
13 
996 
996 
foreign currency translation reserve 
  
134 
882 
hedging reserve 
20 
95 
(75) 
retained earnings 
  
15,748 
14,979 
equity 
  
16,973 
16,782 
  
  
  
  
retirement benefit obligations 
14 
288 
295 
deferred tax liabilities 
6 
1,614 
1,832 
provisions 
16 
139 
258 
bank debt and bond debt 
18 
5,397 
7,062 
lease liabilities 
9 
416 
437 
other payables 
19 
1,190 
1,187 
non-current liabilities 
  
9,044 
11,071 
  
  
  
  
retirement benefit obligations 
14 
2 
- 
provisions 
16 
1,672 
2,048 
bank debt 
18 
2,000 
2,000 
trade payables 
  
3,740 
3,933 
lease liabilities 
9 
77 
79 
income taxes payable 
  
675 
551 
other payables 
19 
1,846 
1,669 
current liabilities 
  
10,012 
10,280 
  
  
  
  
liabilities 
  
19,056 
21,351 
  
  
  
  
equity and liabilities 
  
36,029 
38,133 
 
 
 
statement of financial position –  
assets 
at 31 december 
 
statement of financial position –  
equity and liabilities 
at 31 december 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 46 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
statement of changes in equity 
at 31 december 
 
  
  
share capital 
foreign currency 
translation reserve 
hedging 
reserve 
retained earnings 
total equity 
  
notes 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity at 1 january 
  
996 
882 
(75) 
14,979 
16,782 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
profit for the year 
  
- 
- 
- 
1,581 
1,581 
other comprehensive income 
13 
- 
(748) 
170 
- 
(578) 
comprehensive income 
  
- 
(748) 
170 
1,581 
1,003 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
distributed dividends, gross 
13 
- 
- 
- 
(816) 
(816) 
dividends received, treasury shares 
  
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
capital increase through exercise of warrants 
13 
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
buyback of treasury shares 
13 
- 
- 
- 
(29) 
(29) 
incentive programs 
15 
- 
- 
- 
30 
30 
tax on other transactions in equity 
6 
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
other transactions 
  
- 
- 
- 
(812) 
(812) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity at 31 december 
  
996 
134 
95 
15,748 
16,973 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity at 1 january 
  
996 
804 
(56) 
15,089 
16,833 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
profit for the year 
  
- 
- 
- 
2,313 
2,313 
other comprehensive income 
13 
- 
78 
(19) 
(55) 
4 
comprehensive income 
  
- 
78 
(19) 
2,258 
2,317 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
distributed dividends, gross 
13 
- 
- 
- 
(2,389) 
(2,389) 
dividends received, treasury shares 
  
- 
- 
- 
5 
5 
capital increase through exercise of warrants 
13 
- 
- 
- 
4 
4 
buyback of treasury shares 
13 
- 
- 
- 
(20) 
(20) 
incentive programs 
15 
- 
- 
- 
33 
33 
tax on other transactions in equity 
6 
- 
- 
- 
(1) 
(1) 
other transactions 
  
- 
- 
- 
(2,368) 
(2,368) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity at 31 december 
  
996 
882 
(75) 
14,979 
16,782 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 47 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
profit from operations (ebit) 
  
1,990 
3,153 
adjustment for non-cash items: 
  
  
  
  amortization, depreciation and impairment losses 
  
2,793 
1,670 
  incentive programs 
  
30 
33 
  change in provisions 
  
(307) 
(508) 
  other adjustments 
  
(39) 
(124) 
change in working capital: 
  
  
  
  change in inventories 
  
(265) 
227 
  change in receivables 
  
(428) 
(138) 
  change in short-term debt 
  
675 
(1,024) 
cash flows from operations before financial receipts and payments 
  
4,449 
3,289 
financial receipts 
  
11 
5 
financial payments 
  
(298) 
(15) 
cash flows from ordinary activities 
  
4,162 
3,279 
income taxes paid 
  
(325) 
(670) 
cash flows from operating activities 
  
3,837 
2,609 
  
  
  
  
acquisition of businesses 
  
- 
(10,496) 
purchase of intangible assets 
7 
(114) 
(88) 
purchase of property, plant and equipment 
8 
(364) 
(356) 
sale of property, plant and equipment 
  
1 
4 
purchase of securities and other financial assets 
  
(17) 
(18) 
sale of securities and other financial assets 
  
27 
3,199 
cash flows from investing activities 
  
(467) 
(7,755) 
  
  
  
  
cash flows from operating and investing activities (free cash flow) 
  
3,370 
(5,146) 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
proceeds from loans and issue of bonds 
18 
3,701 
11,095 
repayment of bank loans and borrowings 
18 
(5,169) 
(4,080) 
repayment of lease liabilities 
9 
(83) 
(67) 
buyback of treasury shares 
13 
(29) 
(20) 
capital increase through exercise of warrants 
13 
1 
4 
dividends paid in the financial year, net 
  
(815) 
(2,384) 
cash flows from financing activities 
  
(2,394) 
4,548 
  
  
  
  
net cash flows for the year 
  
976 
(598) 
  
  
  
  
cash and bank balances at 1 january 
  
3,008 
3,605 
unrealized exchange gains/losses on cash and bank balances 
  
(60) 
1 
net cash flows for the year 
  
976 
(598) 
cash and bank balances at 31 december 
 
3,924 
3,008 
  
  
  
  
interest-bearing debt, cash, bank balances and securities, net, 
is composed as follows: 
  
  
  
cash and bank balances 
12 
3,924 
3,008 
securities 
12 
- 
4 
interest bearing debt 
18 
(8,030) 
(9,578) 
interest-bearing debt, cash, bank balances and securities, net,  
at 31 december – net cash/(net debt) 
  
(4,106) 
(6,566) 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
statement of cash flows 
at 31 december 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 48 / 105   
 
 
 
 
1 basis of preparation 
1.1 reporting entity 
h. lundbeck a/s (herein denominated the “parent company” or “company”) is domiciled in denmark. the 
company’s registered office is at ottiliavej 9, 2500 valby. these consolidated financial statements comprise 
the parent company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “group” or “lundbeck”). the group is 
engaged in research, development, production and sale of pharmaceuticals for the treatment of psychiatric and 
neurological disorders. see note 2 revenue and segment information. 
 
1.2 basis of accounting 
the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting 
standards (ifrs) as adopted by the eu and additional requirements of the danish financial statements act. 
the consolidated financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorized for issue on 4 
february 2021. 
 
the comparative figures for 2019 are in accordance with the restated figures as published in the "adjusted 
supplementary information to the annual report 2019" on 5 january 2021 presenting the changes required by 
the danish business authority (“erhvervsstyrelsen”). see note 7 intangible assets. 
 
the statement of financial position is also referred to as “balance sheet”. 
 
details of the group’s accounting policies are included in note 1.7 standards issued but not yet effective and 
note 26 significant accounting policies. 
 
1.3 functional and presentation currency 
items included in the financial statements of each of the group’s entities are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). 
 
the consolidated financial statements are presented in danish kroner (dkk), which is also the functional 
currency of the parent company. all amounts have been rounded to millions, unless otherwise indicated. 
 
1.4 principal accounting policies 
the consolidated financial statements have been prepared to give a true and fair view of the group’s financial 
position at 31 december 2020 and financial performance for the year. the significant accounting policies are 
described in note 26 significant accounting policies. management believes that the accounting policies listed 
in note 1.5 use of judgments and estimates are principal to the financial statements.  
 
1.5 use of judgments and estimates 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has made estimates and judgments that affect 
the application of the group’s accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses. actual results may differ from these estimates. 
 
estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. revisions of estimates are 
recognized prospectively. 
 
management believes that the following accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments are significant to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
 
principal accounting policies 
key accounting estimates and judgments 
note 
provision for discounts and rebates 
estimate of discounts and rebates in the u.s. 
2, 16 
income taxes and deferred income 
taxes 
judgment and estimate of deferred tax assets and 
liabilities and provision for uncertain tax positions 
6 
impairment of product rights 
estimate of the value-in-use methodology for 
impairment of product rights  
7 
provisions for legal disputes, 
contingent assets and liabilities 
estimate of ongoing legal disputes, litigations and 
investigations 
16, 17 
other payables - contingent 
consideration 
assumptions and estimates used in the calculation 
of the fair value related to contingent consideration 
from the businesses acquired in 2019 
19 
 
1.6 changes in significant accounting policies 
effective 1 january 2020, a number of amendments to the accounting standards were implemented.  
 
none of the amendments have a material impact on the accounting policies and/or on the consolidated financial 
statements, consequently, no changes to the accounting policies or retrospective adjustments have been made 
as a result of adopting these standards. 
 
 
note 1 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 49 / 105   
 
 
 
 
1 basis of preparation - continued 
1.7 standards issued but not yet effective 
a number of new standards and amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 january 2020 
though not mandatory for annual reporting periods ending on 31 december 2020. earlier application is 
permitted; however the new or amended standards have not been early adopted by the group.  
 
the amended standards are as follows: 
• classification of liabilities as current or non-current (amendments to ias 1 presentation of financial 
statements) 
• sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture (amendments to ifrs 
10 consolidated financial statements and ias 28 investments in associates and joint ventures) 
 
the amended standards are not mandatory for 31 december 2020 reporting periods. the group expects to 
adopt the new standards, improvements, amendments and interpretations when they become mandatory.  
 
none of the amended standards are expected to have a significant impact on the accounting policies and/or 
on the consolidated financial statements.  
 
1.8 european single electronic format (esef) 
reporting using esef is introduced for annual reports of public listed companies on eu regulated markets 
from 2020.  
 
the annual report is prepared in xhtml format, and the consolidated financial statements are tagged using 
inline extensible business reporting language (ixbrl). the ixbrl tags comply with the esef taxonomy, 
which is included in the esef regulation and developed based on the ifrs taxonomy published by the ifrs 
foundation. where a financial statement line item is not defined in the esef taxonomy, an extension to the 
taxonomy has been created. extensions are anchored to elements in the esef taxonomy, except for 
extensions which are subtotals. 
 
the annual report submitted to the danish financial supervisory authority consists of the xhtml document 
together with certain technical files, all included in a zip file named hlun-2020-12-31.zip. 
 
 
2 revenue and segment information 
the group is engaged in research, development, production and sale of pharmaceuticals for the treatment of 
psychiatric and neurological disorders, which is the group’s single business (operating) segment. the business 
segment reflects the way in which management makes decisions and assesses the business performance.  
 
the group is organized in geographical regions, and the tables below show the group’s revenue from external 
customers broken down by key products and geographical regions. 
 
  
europe 
north 
america 
international 
markets 
group 
2020 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
abilify maintena® 
1,081 
980 
210 
2,271 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
837 
1,682 
583 
3,102 
cipralex®/lexapro® 
523 
127 
1,730 
2,380 
northera® 
- 
2,553 
- 
2,553 
onfi® 
- 
642 
- 
642 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
18 
2,537 
65 
2,620 
sabril® 
- 
777 
- 
777 
vyepti® 
- 
93 
- 
93 
other pharmaceuticals 
870 
399 
1,469 
2,738 
other revenue 
  
  
  
491 
effects from hedging 
  
  
  
5 
total revenue 
3,329 
9,790 
4,057 
17,672 
  
  
  
  
  
of this amount: 
  
  
  
  
royalty 
  
  
  
752 
downpayments and milestone payments 
  
  
  
32 
  
  
  
  
  
 
of total revenue, dkk 30 million derived from sales in denmark, and dkk 9,074 million derived from sales in 
the u.s. 
 
for information on trade receivables and major customers, see note 11 trade and other receivables. 
 
notes 1-2 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 50 / 105   
 
 
 
 
2 revenue and segment information – continued 
 
  
europe 
north 
america 
international 
markets 
group 
2019 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
abilify maintena® 
951 
845 
165 
1,961 
brintellix®/trintellix® 
730 
1,579 
517 
2,826 
cipralex®/lexapro® 
538 
138 
1,638 
2,314 
northera® 
- 
2,328 
- 
2,328 
onfi® 
- 
1,052 
- 
1,052 
rexulti®/rxulti® 
11 
2,219 
40 
2,270 
sabril® 
- 
847 
- 
847 
other pharmaceuticals 
993 
575 
1,532 
3,100 
other revenue 
  
  
  
660 
effects from hedging 
  
  
  
(322) 
total revenue 
3,223 
9,583 
3,892 
17,036 
  
  
  
  
  
of this amount: 
  
  
  
  
royalty 
  
  
  
888 
downpayments and milestone payments 
  
  
  
74 
 
of total revenue, dkk 29 million derived from sales in denmark, and dkk 8,804 million derived from sales in 
the u.s. 
 
  
2020 
2019 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
dkkm 
dkkm 
denmark 
11,452 
10,120 
usa 
12,487 
16,557 
other countries 
1,532 
2,252 
total 
25,471 
28,929 
  
  
  
 
3 employee costs 
breakdown of employee costs 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
short-term employee benefits 
4,293 
3,849 
retirement benefits 
244 
238 
social security costs 
353 
330 
equity- and cash-settled incentive programs 
34 
36 
total 
4,924 
4,453 
  
  
  
 
  
2020 
2019 
employee costs by nature 
dkkm 
dkkm 
cost of sales 
725 
593 
sales and distribution costs 
2,550 
2,344 
administrative expenses 
633 
531 
research and development costs 
1,016 
985 
total 
4,924 
4,453 
  
  
  
 
registered executive management 
each of the registered executive management members participates in a short-term incentive program that 
provides an annual cash bonus based on the achievement of predetermined targets for the preceding financial 
year. the short-term incentive payment levels will be determined by the board of directors from year to year. 
the ceo has a target of up to 100% and a maximum of up to 117% of the fixed annual base salary. the other 
registered executive management members have a target of up to 33.33% and a maximum of up to 50% of 
the fixed annual base salary. all registered executive management members may receive payment below 
target and potentially no payment in case of performance below target. 
 
 
notes 2-3 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 51 / 105   
 
 
 
 
3 employee costs – continued 
  
salary 
cash 
bonus 
pension 
other 
benefits 
equity- and 
cash-settled  
incentive 
programs 
total 
tax  
indemni-
fication¹ 
total 
after tax  
indemni-
fication 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
deborah dunsire, president and 
ceo 
9.6 
9.1 
- 
0.4 
3.9 
23.0 
2.7 
25.7 
lars bang, executive vice 
president, product development & 
supply 
4.0 
1.8 
1.1 
0.2 
2.2 
9.3 
- 
9.3 
anders götzsche, executive vice 
president, cfo 
5.0 
2.4 
1.3 
0.2 
2.3 
11.2 
- 
11.2 
per johan luthman, executive vice 
president, research & 
development 
3.8 
1.7 
1.0 
0.2 
1.1 
7.8 
- 
7.8 
jacob tolstrup, executive vice 
president, commercial operations 
3.9 
1.7 
1.0 
0.2 
1.9 
8.7 
- 
8.7 
total 
26.3 
16.7 
4.4 
1.2 
11.4 
60.0 
2.7 
62.7 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
deborah dunsire, president and 
ceo 
9.4 
9.0 
- 
0.1 
2.7 
21.2 
36.0 
57.2 
lars bang, executive vice 
president, product development & 
supply 
4.0 
1.8 
1.0 
0.2 
1.9 
8.9 
- 
8.9 
anders götzsche, executive vice 
president, cfo 
4.9 
2.3 
1.3 
0.2 
1.5 
10.2 
- 
10.2 
per johan luthman², executive 
vice president, research & 
development 
3.2 
1.6 
0.8 
0.1 
0.5 
6.2 
- 
6.2 
jacob tolstrup, executive vice 
president, commercial operations 
3.8 
1.8 
1.0 
0.2 
1.5 
8.3 
- 
8.3 
total 
25.3 
16.5 
4.1 
0.8 
8.1 
54.8 
36.0 
90.8 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) according to the employment agreement with deborah dunsire, lundbeck will pay the difference in taxation on investment return from 
personal assets between the u.s. and denmark. 
2) per johan luthman joined h. lundbeck a/s in february 2019. 
 
executives 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
short-term employee benefits 
96 
85 
retirement benefits 
11 
11 
other social security costs 
1 
1 
equity- and cash-settled incentive programs 
11 
10 
total 
119 
107 
  
  
  
 
executives are persons who report directly to the registered executive management. 
 
board of directors 
the total remuneration of the board of directors for 2020 amounted to dkk 7.5 million (dkk 6.8 million in 2019). 
the amount includes fees for participation in the audit committee of dkk 0.7 million (dkk 0.7 million in 2019), 
the remuneration & nomination committee of dkk 0.7 million (dkk 0.7 million in 2019), the scientific 
committee of dkk 0.7 million (dkk 0.7 million in 2019) and travel allowances of dkk 0.8 million (dkk 0.5 
million in 2019) for board members with permanent residence outside of europe. the remuneration for 2020 is 
consistent with the remuneration presented at the annual general meeting held on 24 march 2020. 
 
the members of the board of directors held a total of 47,313 lundbeck shares at 31 december 2020 (47,313 
shares in 2019). 
 
the total remuneration of the chairman of the board of directors amounted to dkk 1.7 million (dkk 1.6 million 
in 2019). the total remuneration of the deputy chairman of the board of directors amounted to dkk 1.2 million 
(dkk 1.1 million in 2019). these amounts include fees for participation in board committees. 
 
number of employees 
  
2020 
2019 
average number of full-time employees in the financial year 
5,717 
5,475 
  
  
  
number of full-time employees at 31 december 
  
  
in denmark 
1,728 
1,786 
in other countries 
3,900 
4,020 
total 
5,628 
5,806 
  
  
  
 
note 3 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 52 / 105   
 
 
 
 
4 other operating expenses, net 
in 2020, other operating expenses, net, amounted to dkk 59 million (dkk 514 million in 2019) relating to 
integration, retention and transaction costs in connection with the acquisition of alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. 
(subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle biopharmaceuticals, inc.).   
 
 
5 net financials 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
net interest income/(expenses) from financial assets and financial liabilities measured at 
amortized cost 
(167) 
(17) 
interest expenses relating to lease liabilities 
(8) 
(7) 
net gains/(losses) on securities and other financial assets, measured at fair value through profit 
or loss, incl. dividends 
80 
(5) 
net fair value adjustment of contingent consideration 
3 
(20) 
net exchange gains/(losses) 
76 
(55) 
net income/(expenses), other financial items 
(68) 
(23) 
financial income/(expenses) - net financials 
(84) 
(127) 
  
  
  
 
interest income from financial assets measured at amortized cost amounted to dkk 6 million (dkk 39 million 
in 2019), and interest expenses on financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 
amounted to dkk 173 million (dkk 56 million in 2019). 
 
 
 
 
6 income taxes 
tax on profit for the year 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
current tax 
735 
402 
prior-year adjustments, current tax 
1 
385 
prior-year adjustments, deferred tax 
(41) 
(403) 
change in deferred tax for the year 
(284) 
303 
change in deferred tax as a result of changed income tax rates 
36 
(1) 
total tax for the year 
447 
686 
  
  
  
tax for the year is composed of: 
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
325 
713 
tax on other comprehensive income 
123 
(28) 
tax on other transactions in equity 
(1) 
1 
total tax for the year 
447 
686 
  
  
  
 
for a specification of tax on comprehensive income, see note 13 equity. 
 
uncertain tax positions 
the group operates in a multinational tax environment. complying with tax rules can be complex as the 
interpretation of legislation and case law may not always be clear or may change over time. in addition, transfer 
pricing disputes with tax authorities may occur. management’s judgments are applied to assess the possible 
effect of exposures and the possible outcome of disputes or interpretational uncertainties.  
 
the net accrual for uncertain tax positions amounts to dkk 406 million (dkk 385 million in 2019). management 
believes that the accrual is adequate. however, the actual obligation may differ from the accrual made and 
depends on the outcome of litigations and settlements with the relevant tax authorities. 
 
notes 4-6 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 53 / 105   
 
 
 
 
6 income taxes - continued 
explanation of the group’s effective tax rate 
 
  
dkkm 
% 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
profit before tax 
1,906 
  
  
  
  
calculated tax, 22% 
419 
22.0 
  
  
  
tax effect of: 
  
  
differences in the income tax rates of foreign subsidiaries from the danish corporate income 
tax rate 
20 
1.0 
non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income and other permanent differences 
59 
3.1 
research and development incentives 
(69) 
(3.6) 
foreign-derived intangible income benefit 
(26) 
(1.4) 
non-deductible writedown on intangible assests  
111 
5.8 
non-deductible amortization of product rights 
101 
5.3 
change in valuation of net tax assets 
(286) 
(15.0) 
change in deferred tax as a result of changed income tax rates 
36 
1.9 
prior-year tax adjustments etc., total effect on operations 
(40) 
(2.1) 
effective tax/tax rate for the year 
325 
17.0 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
dkkm 
% 
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
profit before tax 
3,026 
  
  
  
  
calculated tax, 22% 
665 
22.0 
  
  
  
tax effect of: 
  
  
differences in the income tax rates of foreign subsidiaries from the danish corporate income 
tax rate 
62 
2.0 
non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income and other permanent differences 
79 
2.6 
research and development incentives 
(13) 
(0.4) 
foreign-derived intangible income benefit 
(140) 
(4.6) 
non-deductible amortization of product rights 
103 
3.4 
change in valuation of net tax assets 
(24) 
(0.8) 
change in deferred tax as a result of changed income tax rates 
(1) 
(0.0) 
prior-year tax adjustments etc., total effect on operations 
(18) 
(0.6) 
effective tax/tax rate for the year 
713 
23.6 
  
  
  
 
 
 
note 6 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 54 / 105   
 
 
 
 
6 income taxes – continued 
deferred tax balances 
 
 
note 6 
 
 
temporary differences between assets and liabilities as stated  
in the consolidated financial statements and in the tax base 
balance at  
1 january 
effect of foreign 
exchange 
differences 
adjustment of 
deferred tax at 
beginning of year² 
additions through 
acquisitions 
movements 
during the year 
balance at 
31 december 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
intangible assets 
15,708 
(981) 
5 
- 
(1,896) 
12,836 
property, plant and equipment 
753 
(15) 
6 
- 
(16) 
728 
inventories 
597 
(15) 
(582) 
(178) 
103 
(75) 
provisions 
(1,645) 
102 
49 
(164) 
247 
(1,411) 
other items¹ 
(546) 
36 
(8) 
- 
(27) 
(545) 
tax loss carryforwards etc. 
(7,191) 
380 
366 
164 
453 
(5,828) 
total temporary differences 
7,676 
(493) 
(164) 
(178) 
(1,136) 
5,705 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
1,831 
(119) 
(41) 
(38) 
(248) 
1,385 
research and development incentives 
(4) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(4) 
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
1,827 
(119) 
(41) 
(38) 
(248) 
1,381 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
intangible assets 
4,420 
(298) 
10 
15,274 
(3,698) 
15,708 
property, plant and equipment 
283 
(39) 
202 
98 
209 
753 
inventories 
(116) 
(3) 
22 
668 
26 
597 
provisions 
(1,452) 
(57) 
(61) 
(462) 
387 
(1,645) 
other items¹ 
1,867 
(116) 
(1,937) 
(51) 
(309) 
(546) 
tax loss carryforwards etc. 
(4,365) 
47 
(124) 
(7,229) 
4,480 
(7,191) 
total temporary differences 
637 
(466) 
(1,888) 
8,298 
1,095 
7,676 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
109 
(16) 
(403) 
1,910 
231 
1,831 
research and development incentives 
(73) 
(2) 
- 
- 
71 
(4) 
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
36 
(18) 
(403) 
1,910 
302 
1,827 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
1) movements during the year include dkk -1 million (dkk 1 million in 2019) recognized in equity. 
2) in 2019, in accordance with ifric 23 uncertainty over income tax treatments movements in other items includes a reclassification to income taxes payable of dkk 1,672 million (tax value dkk 368 million) relating to provisions for uncertain tax positions. 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 55 / 105   
 
 
 
 
6 income taxes – continued 
 
management estimates future income according to budgets, forecasts, business plans and initiatives scheduled 
for the coming years, which supports the recognition of deferred tax assets. when forecasting the utilization of 
tax assets, the group applies the same assumptions as for impairment testing. see note 7 intangible assets. 
 
accordingly, at 31 december 2020 all deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried forward in denmark 
from 2015, 2016 and 2018 were capitalized in the amount of dkk 777 million (dkk 820 million in 2019). u.s. 
tax losses and tax credits stemming from acquisitions have been recognized in the amount of dkk 553 million 
(dkk 775 million in 2019) equalling the expected utilization within a foreseeable future, whereas an amount of 
dkk 132 million (dkk 454 million in 2019) has not been recognized in the balance sheet. 
 
 
 
 
unrecognized deferred tax assets 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
unrecognized deferred tax assets at 1 january 
507 
77 
additions through acquisitions 
- 
454 
prior-year adjustments 
(37) 
(24) 
additions 
1 
3 
recognized 
(287) 
(3) 
unrecognized deferred tax assets at 31 december 
184 
507 
  
  
  
 
unrecognized deferred tax assets primarily relate to net operating losses and tax credits not expected to be 
utilized within a foreseeable future.  
 
note 6 
 
 
  
2020 
2020 
2020 
2019 
2019 
2019 
  
deferred tax  
assets 
deferred tax  
liabilities 
net 
deferred tax  
assets 
deferred tax  
liabilities 
net 
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
intangible assets 
(105) 
3,156 
3,051 
(35) 
3,790 
3,755 
property, plant and equipment 
(8) 
179 
171 
(9) 
183 
174 
inventories 
(94) 
68 
(26) 
(70) 
207 
137 
provisions 
(339) 
- 
(339) 
(396) 
- 
(396) 
other items 
(195) 
53 
(142) 
(197) 
53 
(144) 
tax loss carryforwards etc. 
(1,330) 
- 
(1,330) 
(1,695) 
- 
(1,695) 
research and development incentives 
(4) 
- 
(4) 
(4) 
- 
(4) 
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
(2,075) 
3,456 
1,381 
(2,406) 
4,233 
1,827 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
set off within legal tax entities and jurisdictions 
1,842 
(1,842) 
- 
2,401 
(2,401) 
- 
total net deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
(233) 
1,614 
1,381 
(5) 
1,832 
1,827 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 56 / 105   
 
 
 
 
7 intangible assets 
reconciliation of carrying amount 
  
goodwill 
product 
rights¹ 
other 
rights² 
projects in 
progress² 
total 
intangible 
assets 
intangible assets 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
cost at 1 january 
5,278 
31,610 
1,826 
134 
38,848 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(409) 
(1,357) 
(12) 
(1) 
(1,779) 
transfers 
- 
- 
55 
(55) 
- 
additions 
- 
- 
21 
93 
114 
additions through acquisitions, change in opening 
balance 
(24) 
- 
- 
- 
(24) 
disposals 
- 
- 
(159) 
- 
(159) 
cost at 31 december 
4,845 
30,253 
1,731 
171 
37,000 
  
  
  
  
  
  
amortization and impairment losses at 1 january 
- 
10,878 
1,712 
3 
12,593 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
- 
(597) 
(10) 
- 
(607) 
transfers 
- 
- 
3 
(3) 
- 
amortization 
- 
1,548 
63 
- 
1,611 
impairment losses 
- 
792 
- 
- 
792 
disposals 
- 
- 
(127) 
- 
(127) 
amortization and impairment losses at 31 december 
- 
12,621 
1,641 
- 
14,262 
carrying amount at 31 december 
4,845 
17,632 
90 
171 
22,738 
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) at 31 december 2020, product rights not yet commercialized amounted to dkk 5,890 million (dkk 15,956 million in 2019). 
2) other rights and projects in progress include items such as the it system sap. the amounts include directly attributable internal expenses. 
 
in 2020, lundbeck changed the initial purchase price allocation relating to the acquisition of alder 
biopharmaceuticals, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle biopharmaceuticals, inc.) due to 
prepayments to a supplier expensed prior to the acquisition date and due to a reassessment of the inventory 
valuation. this resulted in a decrease in goodwill of dkk 24 million, comprising an increase in prepayments of 
dkk 164 million and a decrease in inventories, net of tax, of dkk 140 million. 
 
 
 
  
goodwill 
product 
rights¹ 
other 
rights² 
projects in 
progress² 
total 
intangible 
assets 
intangible assets 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
cost at 1 january 
4,300 
16,239 
1,759 
136 
22,434 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
69 
97 
3 
- 
169 
additions through acquisitions 
909 
15,274 
- 
- 
16,183 
transfers 
- 
- 
58 
(58) 
- 
additions 
- 
- 
15 
73 
88 
disposals 
- 
- 
(9) 
(17) 
(26) 
cost at 31 december 
5,278 
31,610 
1,826 
134 
38,848 
  
  
  
  
  
  
amortization and impairment losses at 1 january 
- 
9,432 
1,648 
20 
11,100 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
- 
137 
3 
- 
140 
amortization 
- 
1,309 
68 
- 
1,377 
disposals 
- 
- 
(7) 
(17) 
(24) 
amortization and impairment losses at 31 december 
- 
10,878 
1,712 
3 
12,593 
carrying amount at 31 december 
5,278 
20,732 
114 
131 
26,255 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
description of material product rights 
in october 2019, as part of the acquisition of alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck 
seattle biopharmaceuticals, inc.), lundbeck acquired the eptinezumab product rights, which is an 
investigational monoclonal antibody (mab) for migraine prevention targeting the calcitonin gene-related peptide 
(cgrp). the value of the product rights was dkk 13,421 million at the time of acquisition. the carrying amount 
of dkk 12,076 million at 31 december 2020 (dkk 13,340 million in 2019) was affected by developments in the 
usd/dkk exchange rate. 
note 7 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 57 / 105   
 
 
 
 
7 intangible assets - continued 
in may 2019, as part of the acquisition of abide therapeutics, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck la jolla 
research center, inc., lundbeck acquired a portfolio of compounds, including the product rights to  
abx-1431; a first-in-class, small-molecule inhibitor of monoacylglycerol lipase (mgll) currently being 
investigated in clinical trials for the treatment of neurological disorders, and various compounds in the pre-
clinical phase. the value of the portfolio of compounds recognized as product rights was dkk 1,853 million at 
the time of acquisition. the carrying amount of dkk 1,871 million at 31 december 2020 (dkk 1,840 million in 
2019) was affected by developments in the usd/dkk exchange rate. 
 
in 2015, lundbeck recognized an impairment loss on the rexulti® product rights in the approximate amount of 
dkk 5 billion. in 2020, based on the requirement from the danish business authority, an impairment test was 
performed for 2017, leading to the conclusion that the impairment loss recognized in the annual report 2015 
should be reversed in 2017 net of accumulated amortization. the reversal led to an increase in the value of the 
rexulti® product rights amounting to dkk 3,766 million, net of amortization, at 31 december 2017. the value 
of the rexulti® product rights was restated and published on 5 january 2021 as “adjusted supplementary 
information to the annual report 2019”. the total carrying amount of the rexulti® product rights amounted to 
dkk 2,823 million, net of amortization, at 31 december 2020 (dkk 3,150 million in 2019). 
 
amortization and impairment losses 
amortization and impairment losses for the year are included in the following functions in the statement of profit 
or loss: 
 
  
2020 
2019 
amortization and impairment losses 
dkkm 
dkkm 
cost of sales 
1,584 
1,343 
sales and distribution costs 
33 
18 
administrative expenses 
18 
6 
research and development costs 
800 
12 
total 
2,435 
1,379 
  
  
  
 
in march 2020, it was announced that the phase iia study (ambled) of its novel selective positive allosteric 
modulator of the glutamate 4 receptor (mglu4 pam), foliglurax, for the treatment of parkinson's disease did not 
meet the primary study endpoint. consequently, lundbeck recognized an impairment loss of dkk 792 million 
relating to the foliglurax product rights. the impairment loss is included in research and development costs. 
 
impairment test 
the group is considered a single cash-generating unit (cgu) as this is how management makes decisions 
and assesses business performance. all subsidiaries are considered fully integrated into the group as no entity 
has significant independent or separately identifiable inflow of cash. most cash inflows are based on the output 
from research and development activities performed by headquarters on behalf of the entire group. accordingly, 
an impairment test was performed based on lundbeck having one single cgu. 
 
in addition to the impairment test of the cgu, an impairment test was performed for the product rights of rexulti® 
as indications of impairment were identified.  
 
methodology 
in the impairment test of the cgu, based on the fair value less cost of disposal, the market price of lundbeck 
is compared with its carrying amount.  
 
in the impairment test of the product rights of rexulti®, based on value in use, the discounted expected future 
cash flows for the specific asset tested are compared with the carrying amount of the intangible asset. the 
expected future cash flows are based on a forecast period of nine years, which is the period used by 
management for decision making, with due consideration of patent expiry. the assumptions used in the 
impairment test are based on benchmarked external data and historical trends. the key parameters in the 
calculation of the value in use are revenue, earnings, working capital, discount rate and the preconditions for 
the cash flow period.  
 
in the impairment test of the product rights of rexulti®, based on value in use, significant assumptions and 
estimates are applied to the discounted expected future cash flows from the product right. the value-in-use 
calculation is compared with the carrying amount of the relevant asset.  
 
 
 
 
note 7 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 58 / 105   
 
 
 
 
7 intangible assets - continued 
the four category elements in the table below are taken into consideration when determining the key 
parameters for the value-in-use calculation.  
 
financial elements 
market elements 
prices 
healthcare reforms 
rebates 
price reforms 
quantities 
market access 
patient population 
pharma restrictions 
market shares 
launch success 
competition 
product positioning 
fill rates 
competing pharmaceuticals 
prescription rates 
generics on the market 
lundbeck costs (including promotion costs) 
 
 
 
 
r&d elements 
other elements 
r&d spend 
supply chain effectiveness 
collaborations 
strength and abilities of partners 
pipeline success rate 
 
product labelling 
  
liaison with regulatory bodies 
  
 
 
 
the calculation of the value in use for product right is based on a discount rate after tax of 7.3% (7.93% 
in 2019). 
2020 testing outcome 
the impairment tests performed in 2020 did not result in the recognition of impairment losses other than the 
impairment loss on the foliglurax product rights recognized in march 2020. 
 
2019 testing outcome 
the impairment test performed in 2019 did not result in the recognition of any impairment losses. 
 
impact of possible changes in key assumptions  
if the budgeted revenue had been 5% lower than management's estimates, the safety margin would continue 
to be positive. if the discount rate after tax applied to cash flows had been 1% higher, the safety margin would 
continue to be positive. 
 
note 7 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 59 / 105   
 
 
 
 
8 property, plant and equipment 
  
land and 
buildings¹ 
plant and 
machinery 
other 
fixtures 
and fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
prepayments 
and assets  
under 
construction 
total  
property,  
plant and 
equipment 
property, plant and equipment 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
cost at 1 january 
3,381 
1,906 
853 
419 
6,559 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(1) 
(6) 
(16) 
(2) 
(25) 
transfers 
91 
68 
21 
(180) 
- 
additions 
29 
46 
34 
255 
364 
disposals 
(5) 
(12) 
(59) 
- 
(76) 
cost at 31 december 
3,495 
2,002 
833 
492 
6,822 
  
  
  
  
  
  
depreciation and impairment losses at 1 january 
2,176 
1,468 
717 
- 
4,361 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(1) 
(5) 
(8) 
- 
(14) 
depreciation 
104 
100 
45 
- 
249 
impairment losses 
1 
7 
- 
- 
8 
disposals 
(4) 
(12) 
(43) 
- 
(59) 
depreciation and impairment losses at  
31 december 
2,276 
1,558 
711 
- 
4,545 
carrying amount at 31 december 
1,219 
444 
122 
492 
2,277 
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) no land and buildings were mortgaged at 31 december 2020 and at 31 december 2019. 
  
  
  
 
 
  
land and 
buildings¹ 
plant and 
machinery 
other 
fixtures 
and fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
prepayments 
and assets  
under 
construction 
total  
property,  
plant and 
equipment 
property, plant and equipment 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
cost at 1 january 
3,309 
1,765 
813 
333 
6,220 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
1 
- 
3 
- 
4 
additions through acquisitions 
- 
17 
32 
- 
49 
transfers 
60 
89 
11 
(160) 
- 
additions 
17 
55 
28 
256 
356 
disposals 
(6) 
(20) 
(34) 
(10) 
(70) 
cost at 31 december 
3,381 
1,906 
853 
419 
6,559 
  
  
  
  
  
  
depreciation and impairment losses at 1 january 
2,083 
1,401 
708 
10 
4,202 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
1 
- 
3 
- 
4 
depreciation 
97 
87 
36 
- 
220 
impairment losses 
1 
- 
- 
- 
1 
disposals 
(6) 
(20) 
(30) 
(10) 
(66) 
depreciation and impairment losses at  
31 december 
2,176 
1,468 
717 
- 
4,361 
carrying amount at 31 december 
1,205 
438 
136 
419 
2,198 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
note 8 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 60 / 105   
 
 
 
 
9 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
 
2020 
2019 
amounts recognized in profit or loss 
dkkm 
dkkm 
expenses relating to short-term leases, not capitalized 
2 
4 
depreciation of right-of-use assets, land and buildings 
85 
70 
interest expenses relating to lease liabilities  
8 
7 
 
  
2020 
2019 
land and buildings 
dkkm 
dkkm 
carrying amount at 1 january 
476 
441 
additions (in 2019, including additions through acquisitions) 
34 
76 
carrying amount at 31 december  
456 
476 
 
  
balance at  
1 january 
cash outflow 
non-cash 
flow 
balance at  
31 december 
development in lease liabilities 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
lease liabilities 
516 
(83) 
60 
493 
total lease liabilities 
516 
(83) 
60 
493 
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
lease liabilities 
472 
(67) 
111 
516 
total lease liabilities 
472 
(67) 
111 
516 
  
  
  
  
  
 
the total cash outflow from lease agreements relating to office leases and similar amounted to dkk 91 million 
(dkk 74 million in 2019) and includes repayment of lease liabilities and interest. 
 
the maturity analysis of lease liabilities is provided in the table ”classification of and contractual maturity dates 
for financial assets and financial liabilities” in note 20 financial instruments. 
 
10 inventories 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
raw materials and consumables 
206 
233 
work in progress 
1,155 
1,084 
finished goods and goods for resale 
802 
887 
total 
2,163 
2,204 
  
  
  
 
inventories recognized as cost of sales amounted to dkk 2,618 million (dkk 2,531 million in 2019). 
 
inventories of dkk 722 million (dkk 749 million in 2019) are expected to be utilized after more than  
12 months. 
 
 
11 trade and other receivables 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
trade receivables 
2,579 
2,797 
writedowns 
(26) 
(29) 
trade receivables, net 
2,553 
2,768 
  
  
  
other receivables 
868 
388 
  
  
  
 
credit risks 
lundbeck’s products are sold primarily to distributors of pharmaceuticals, pharmacies and hospitals. the 
payment conditions for the customers, including credit periods and any payment of interest in case of non-
payment, vary, but are always based on industry practice in the relevant market. as a result of special trading 
conditions in specific markets, the credit period may be up to approximately 200 days. the weighted average 
credit period is approximately 60 days. 
notes 9-11 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 61 / 105   
 
 
 
 
11 trade and other receivables - continued 
in april 2020, lundbeck purchased a “key buyer” credit insurance covering around 100 of the largest customers 
of the group. the credit insurance protects against insolvency, protracted default and political risk.  
 
changes to the group’s customer portfolio are limited. when collaboration is established with a new customer, 
credit assessment is done either by lundbeck or an external credit rating agency. at the time of revenue 
recognition, lundbeck assesses the full lifetime expected credit losses. in addition, undue and due receivables 
are analyzed in an ongoing process. based on the credit assessment, receivables analysis, historical and 
industry experience, it is estimated whether the receivables are recoverable or writedowns are needed. 
historically, losses on debtors have been insignificant. this was also the case in 2020. 
 
the group has one customer in the u.s. contributing approximately dkk 1.8 billion (dkk 1.7 billion in 2019) 
of total revenue. no other single customer contributed 10% or more to total revenue.  
 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, including the impact from currency devaluations, represent an inherent 
risk as lundbeck also operates in volatile economies. lundbeck monitors and takes action to mitigate risks 
associated with receivables. 
 
market risks 
the pharmaceutical market is characterized by the aim of authorities to reduce or cap healthcare costs in 
general. market changes such as price reductions and ever-earlier launch of generics may have a considerable 
impact on the earnings potential of pharmaceuticals. 
 
moreover, the growing number of market access hurdles set up by local authorities is impairing the earnings 
potential of lundbeck’s new generation of pharmaceuticals in the finite period of exclusivity. lundbeck expects 
that these conditions will prevail going forward. 
12 cash resources 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
cash and bank balances 
3,924 
3,008 
securities with a maturity of more than three months¹ 
- 
4 
cash, bank balances and securities at 31 december 
3,924 
3,012 
  
  
  
1) the securities portfolio is classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
  
  
 
liquidity risk and capital structure 
the credit risk on cash and derivatives (forward exchange contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps) 
is limited as lundbeck only deals with banks with a solid credit rating. to further limit the risk of loss, internal 
limits have been defined for the credit exposure accepted towards the banks with whom lundbeck collaborates. 
the counterparty risk towards banks with a short-term credit rating lower than a-1 (standard & poor’s) is kept 
to a minimum, only allowing balances necessary for operating needs within the immediate future. credit lines 
are part of the treasury policy.  
 
the treasury policy covers financial resources, foreign currency exposure, interest rate risk, securities, loan 
and bond portfolios as well as capitalization of subsidiaries. the treasury policy is presented to the audit 
committee annually for subsequent approval by the board of directors. in addition, the board of directors 
approves the framework for selecting financial collaboration partners and the credit lines and types of 
transactions allowed. 
 
pursuant to its treasury policy, lundbeck must ensure that a minimum of dkk 1.0 billion is held in cash or 
cash equivalents. if this amount is not available in cash, fixed-term deposits or bonds, lundbeck will enter into 
committed credit facilities with its banking partners. 
 
in 2019, lundbeck entered into two loan agreements with its strategic banks; a revolving credit facility (rcf) 
of eur 1.5 billion and a term loan of dkk 2 billion.  
 
the rcf expires in 2024 and has an option, at the lenders' discretion, to extend the maturity for up to two 
additional years. the flexible structure of the rcf enables repayment of the debt in full at short notice, normally 
not more than three months, and still maintain the facility until expiration of the credit commitment. 
 
the term loan also has an extension possibility, at the lenders’ discretion, to extend the maturity for up to two 
additional years. due to lundbeck’s significant unutilized credit facilities and cash position, from a liquidity risk 
perspective, it is not expected to be necessary to extend the term loan. 
 
notes 11-12 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 62 / 105   
 
 
 
 
12 cash resources - continued 
both facilities are subject to covenants, and no breaches were encountered during the year. at 31 december 
2020, lundbeck had unutilized committed credit facilities of dkk 9.4 billion (dkk 4.1 billion in 2019). 
 
in october 2020, lundbeck issued a seven-year eurobond in the amount of eur 500 million with a fixed coupon 
of 0.875%. the bond was issued under lundbeck´s euro medium-term note (emtn) program of eur 2 billion.  
 
in addition, lundbeck has a number of uncommitted credit facilities to cover its day-to-day operations. at 31 
december 2020 and 31 december 2019, these credit facilities were unutilized.  
 
when managing its capital structure, lundbeck’s main objective is to support the expand and invest to grow 
strategy; use capital resources for required research and development and for investments to realize the 
strategy; and to generate long-term attractive return for the shareholders. lundbeck also wishes to be a strong 
financial counterparty to debt providers and other stakeholders by maintaining its investment grade credit rating 
(bbb-).   
 
to maintain or adjust its capital structure, lundbeck may adjust dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 
to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to reduce debt or increase debt. to minimize its refinancing risk, 
lundbeck strives to have diversified funding, both in terms of duration and source.  
 
lundbeck defines capital as total equity and net interest-bearing debt (see notes 18 bank debt, bond debt and 
borrowings and 9 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities) and after deducting cash resources. at 31 december 
2020, total equity amounted to dkk 16,973 million compared with dkk 16,782 million at 31 december 2019. 
at 31 december 2020, interest-bearing debt, cash, bank balances and securities, net, amounted to dkk 4,106 
million compared with dkk 6,566 million at 31 december 2019. the change in interest-bearing debt, cash, 
bank balances and securities, net, is mainly due to cash flows from operations. 
 
lundbeck has unfunded obligations relating to defined benefit plans amounting to dkk 255 million at 31 
december 2020 (dkk 262 million in 2019). 
 
13 equity 
share capital 
the share capital of dkk 996 million at 31 december 2020 is divided into 199,148,222 shares at a nominal 
value of dkk 5 each. 
 
  
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016 
share capital 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
at 1 january 
996 
996 
995 
988 
987 
capital increase through exercise of warrants 
- 
- 
1 
7 
1 
at 31 december 
996 
996 
996 
995 
988 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
2020 
2019 
issued shares 
number 
number 
at 1 january 
199,136,725 
199,104,996 
capital increase through exercise of warrants 
11,497 
31,729 
at 31 december 
199,148,222 
199,136,725 
  
  
  
 
treasury shares 
  
shares of 
dkk 5 nom. 
nominal 
value 
proportion of 
share capital 
cost 
treasury shares 
number 
dkkm 
% 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
shareholding at 1 january 
435,019 
2 
0.22 
135 
share buyback 
114,000 
1 
0.06 
29 
shares used for funding incentive programmes 
(99,123) 
(1) 
(0.05) 
(29) 
shareholding at 31 december 
449,896 
2 
0.23 
135 
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
shareholding at 1 january 
366,019 
2 
0.18 
115 
share buyback 
69,000 
- 
0.04 
20 
shareholding at 31 december 
435,019 
2 
0.22 
135 
  
  
  
  
  
 
the parent company has only one class of shares, and all shares rank equally. the shares are negotiable 
instruments with no restrictions on their transferability. 
 
 
notes 12-13 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 63 / 105   
 
 
 
 
13 equity - continued 
in 2020, the parent company acquired treasury shares at a value of dkk 29 million (dkk 20 million in 2019), 
corresponding to 114,000 shares (69,000 shares in 2019). the shares were acquired to fund lundbeck’s long-
term share-based incentive programs. a total of 99,123 shares were used for this purpose in 2020 (0 shares in 
2019). 
 
the board of directors is authorized to issue new shares and raise the share capital of the parent company as 
set out in article 4 of the parent company’s articles of association. 
 
the share capital is in compliance with the capital requirements of the danish companies act and the rules of 
nasdaq copenhagen. 
 
in 2020, employees exercised warrants totalling dkk 1 million (dkk 4 million in 2019). the share premium in 
this connection was dkk 1 million (dkk 4 million in 2019). 
 
distribution of profit 
the board of directors is proposing distribution of dividends for 2020 of approximately 31% (35% in 2019) of 
the net profit for the year allocated to the shareholders, equivalent to dkk 2.50 per share (dkk 4.10 per share 
in 2019) or dkk 498 million (dkk 816 million in 2019), inclusive of dividends on treasury shares. total dividends 
are based on the current share capital. 
 
earnings per share 
  
2020 
2019 
profit for the year (dkkm) 
1,581 
2,313 
  
  
  
average number of shares (‘000 shares) 
199,146 
199,120 
average number of treasury shares (‘000 shares) 
(416) 
(427) 
average number of shares, excl. treasury shares (‘000 shares) 
198,730 
198,693 
average number of warrants, fully diluted (‘000 warrants) 
3 
22 
average number of shares, fully diluted ('000 shares) 
198,733 
198,715 
  
  
  
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk) 
7.95 
11.64 
earnings per share, diluted (deps) (dkk) 
7.95 
11.64 
  
  
  
at 31 december 2020, no warrants were outstanding. 
  
  
 
 
tax on other comprehensive income 
  
before tax 
tax 
after tax 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under foreign currency 
translation reserve in the statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
exchange rate gains/losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries 
(1,007) 
- 
(1,007) 
exchange rate gains/losses on additions to net investments in foreign 
subsidiaries 
(21) 
3 
(18) 
hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries 
356 
(79) 
277 
total 
(672) 
(76) 
(748) 
  
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under hedging reserve in the 
statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
deferred exchange gains/losses, hedging 
313 
(69) 
244 
deferred fair value of interest rate swaps 
(90) 
20 
(70) 
exchange gains/losses, hedging (transferred to revenue) 
(5) 
1 
(4) 
total 
218 
(48) 
170 
  
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under retained  
earnings in the statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
actuarial gains/losses 
(1) 
1 
- 
total 
(1) 
1 
- 
  
  
  
  
recognized in other comprehensive income 
(455) 
(123) 
(578) 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
note 13 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 64 / 105   
 
 
 
 
13 equity - continued 
  
before tax 
tax 
after tax 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2019 
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under foreign currency 
translation reserve in the statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
exchange rate gains/losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries 
135 
- 
135 
exchange rate gains/losses on additions to net investments in foreign 
subsidiaries 
(136) 
30 
(106) 
hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries 
62 
(13) 
49 
total 
61 
17 
78 
  
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under hedging reserve in the 
statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
deferred exchange gains/losses, hedging 
(337) 
74 
(263) 
deferred fair value of interest rate swaps 
8 
(2) 
6 
exchange gains/losses, hedging (transferred to revenue) 
322 
(71) 
251 
exchange gains/losses, hedging (transferred to intangible assets) 
(17) 
4 
(13) 
total 
(24) 
5 
(19) 
  
  
  
  
other comprehensive income recognized under retained  
earnings in the statement of changes in equity 
  
  
  
actuarial gains/losses 
(61) 
6 
(55) 
total 
(61) 
6 
(55) 
  
  
  
  
recognized in other comprehensive income 
(24) 
28 
4 
  
  
  
  
 
exchange rate gains/losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries, a loss of dkk 1,007 million (a gain of dkk 
135 million in 2019), and exchange rate gains/losses on additions to net investments in foreign subsidiaries, a 
loss of dkk 21 million (dkk 136 million in 2019), are primarily driven by developments in usd/dkk and 
gbp/dkk exchange rates. 
 
 
14 retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations 
defined contribution plans 
the major defined contribution plans cover employees in australia, canada, denmark, finland, south korea, 
sweden, the uk and the u.s. the cost of defined contribution plans, representing contributions to the plans, 
amounted to dkk 234 million in 2020 (dkk 231 million in 2019).  
 
defined benefit plans 
the group has defined benefit plans in a few countries. the most important plans comprise current and former 
employees in germany and the uk.  
 
the defined benefit plan in germany is unfunded and administered by lundbeck germany. the defined benefit 
plan in the uk is funded and constituted under a trust, whose assets are legally separated from the group. 
both plans entitle the employees to an annual pension on retirement based on the service and salary level until 
retirement. 
 
  
2020 
2019 
retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations 
dkkm 
dkkm 
present value of defined benefit plans 
530 
537 
fair value of plan assets 
(275) 
(275) 
defined benefit plans at 31 december 
255 
262 
other obligations of a retirement benefit nature 
35 
33 
retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations at 31 december 
290 
295 
  
  
  
  
  
  
retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations break down as follows: 
  
  
non-current obligations 
288 
295 
current obligations 
2 
- 
retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations at 31 december 
290 
295 
  
  
  
 
 
 
notes 13-14 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 65 / 105   
 
 
 
 
14 retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations – continued 
  
2020 
2019 
assumptions for the most important plans 
% 
% 
discount rate 
0.70-1.70 
0.65-2.00 
inflation rate 
1.75-2.85 
1.75-1.85 
pay rate increase 
0.00-2.50 
0.00-2.50 
pension increase 
1.75-5.00 
1.75-5.00 
age-weighted employee resignation rate 
0-8 
0-8 
expected return on plan assets 
1.70 
2.00 
 
the most significant assumptions used in the calculation of the obligation for defined benefit plans are discount 
rate and inflation rate. an increase in the discount rate of 0.25 of a percentage point would result in a decrease 
in the obligation of approximately dkk 22 million (dkk 22 million in 2019) and vice versa. an increase in the 
inflation rate of 0.25 of a percentage point would result in an increase in the obligation of approximately dkk 8 
million (dkk 8 million in 2019) and vice versa. the sensitivity analysis indicates how a change in the individual 
assumptions would change the obligation. however, the assumptions will most likely be correlated and 
consequently result in a different obligation. 
 
  
2020 
2019 
fair value of plan assets 
dkkm 
dkkm 
shares 
56 
52 
bonds 
38 
46 
property 
17 
17 
insurance contracts 
147 
147 
other assets 
17 
13 
total 
275 
275 
  
  
  
 
shares, bonds, property and other assets are measured at fair value based on quoted prices in an active market. 
insurance contracts are not based on quoted prices in an active market. 
 
  
2020 
2019 
change in present value of defined benefit plans 
dkkm 
dkkm 
present value of defined benefit plans at 1 january 
537 
455 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(16) 
13 
pension expenses 
7 
6 
interest expenses relating to the obligations 
7 
10 
experience adjustments 
4 
14 
adjustments relating to financial assumptions 
9 
75 
adjustments relating to demographic assumptions 
- 
(18) 
benefits paid 
(19) 
(16) 
employee contributions 
1 
1 
curtailments 
- 
(3) 
present value of defined benefit plans at 31 december 
530 
537 
  
  
  
 
  
2020 
2019 
change in fair value of plan assets 
dkkm 
dkkm 
fair value of plan assets at 1 january 
275 
247 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(13) 
13 
interest income on plan assets 
5 
7 
experience adjustments 
12 
10 
administration fees 
(1) 
(1) 
contributions 
7 
8 
benefits paid 
(11) 
(10) 
employee contributions 
1 
1 
fair value of plan assets at 31 december 
275 
275 
  
  
  
 
  
2020 
2019 
net expense recognized in profit or loss 
dkkm 
dkkm 
pension expenses 
7 
6 
curtailments 
- 
(3) 
finance costs 
2 
3 
administration fees 
1 
1 
total 
10 
7 
  
  
  
 
note 14 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 66 / 105   
 
 
 
 
14 retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations – continued 
  
2020 
2019 
amount recognized in other comprehensive income 
dkkm 
dkkm 
actuarial (gains)/losses 
1 
61 
total 
1 
61 
  
  
  
realized return on plan assets 
17 
17 
 
the benefit under unfunded defined benefit plans is paid directly by the group. in some countries, the future 
contribution to funded defined benefit plans depends on the development in salaries, administrative fees and 
regular premiums, and in other countries on the surplus/deficit according to local requirements. the weighted 
average duration of the obligation is 15 years (16 years in 2019). the expected contribution to defined benefit 
plans for 2021 is dkk 14 million (dkk 16 million for 2020). 
 
other obligations of a retirement benefit nature 
an obligation of dkk 35 million (dkk 33 million in 2019) was recognized to cover other obligations of a 
retirement benefit nature, which primarily include termination benefits in a number of subsidiaries. these benefit 
payments are conditional upon specified requirements being met. 
 
 
15 incentive programs 
in order to attract, retain and motivate key employees and align their interests with those of its shareholders, 
lundbeck has established a number of long-term incentive programs. lundbeck uses equity- and cash-settled 
programs. 
 
equity-settled programs 
in 2020, equity-settled incentive programs consisted of restricted share units (rsus) and warrants. 
 
in february 2020, as part of lundbeck’s recurring long-term incentive program, lundbeck established an rsu 
program for lundbeck’s registered executive management and key employees. four of the members of the 
registered executive management and 131 key employees employed with h. lundbeck a/s or a lundbeck 
subsidiary were granted rsus. the participants were selected on the basis of job level. all the rsus vest three 
years after grant. vesting is subject to the board of directors’ decision on vesting, to lundbeck achieving certain 
financial targets specified by the board of directors and to continuing employment with the group during the 
vesting period. the fair value of the rsus has been calculated on the basis of a share price of dkk 274.56 
reduced by an expected dividend yield of 2.00% p.a. the fair value at the time of the grant was dkk 258.41 
per rsu. 
 
in february 2019, as part of lundbeck’s recurring long-term incentive program, lundbeck established an rsu 
program for lundbeck’s registered executive management and key employees. four members of the 
registered executive management and 135 key employees employed with h. lundbeck a/s or a lundbeck 
subsidiary were granted rsus. the participants were selected on the basis of job level. all the rsus vest three 
years after grant. vesting is subject to the board of directors’ decision, to lundbeck achieving certain financial 
targets specified by the board of directors and to continuing employment with the group during the vesting 
period. the calculation of the fair value of the rsus is based on a share price of dkk 286.56 reduced by an 
expected dividend yield of 2.00% p.a. the fair value at the time of the grant was dkk 269.71 per rsu. 
 
the rsus granted to the registered executive management and key employees in 2016 vested in 2020. no 
rsus vested in 2019. 
 
rsu programs 
2020 
2019 
2018 
2017 
2016 
number of persons included in the program 
135 
139 
133 
127 
126 
total number of rsus granted 
139,119 
127,899 
107,321 
131,516 
120,549 
number of rsus granted to the registered 
executive management 
29,923 
28,128 
24,783 
47,911 
20,484 
vesting date 
01.02.23 
01.02.22 
01.02.22 
01.02.21 
01.02.20 
fair value at the date of grant, dkk 
258.41 
269.71 
291.03 
268.65 
237.56 
 
at 31 december 2020, no warrants were outstanding (26,985 warrants in 2019).  
 
in 2020, 11,497 warrants from the 2012 grant were exercised (27,934 in 2019). in 2019, 3,795 warrants from 
the 2011 grant were exercised and at 31 december 2019, no warrants from the 2011 grant were outstanding. 
the weighted average share price of the warrants exercised was dkk 284.52 (dkk 271.77 in 2019).  
 
 
 
notes 14-15 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 67 / 105   
 
 
 
 
15 incentive programs - continued 
warrant programs 
2011 
2012 
number of persons included in the program 
112 
102 
total number of warrants granted 
849,085 
692,003 
number of warrants granted to the registered executive management 
381,224 
- 
vesting date 
31.03.14 
31.03.15 
exercise period begins 
01.04.14 
01.04.15 
exercise period ends 
31.03.19 
31.03.20 
exercise price, dkk 
121.00 
113.00 
fair value at the date of grant, dkk 
30.10 
24.11 
 
  
registered 
executive 
management 
executives 
other 
total 
average 
exercise 
price 
warrants 
number 
number 
number 
number 
dkk 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
1 january 
- 
3,458 
23,527 
26,985 
113.00 
exercised 
- 
(3,458) 
(8,039) 
(11,497) 
113.00 
expired 
- 
- 
(15,488) 
(15,488) 
113.00 
31 december 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
1 january 
23,741 
3,458 
37,324 
64,523 
114.19 
exercised 
(23,741) 
- 
(7,988) 
(31,729) 
113.96 
expired 
- 
- 
(5,809) 
(5,809) 
121.00 
31 december 
- 
3,458 
23,527 
26,985 
113.00 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
cash-settled programs 
in 2020, the cash-settled programs consisted of restricted cash units (rcus). 
 
the cash-settled programs cannot be converted into shares because the value of the programs is distributed 
as a cash amount. 
 
in february 2020, lundbeck established an rcu program for the chief executive officer (ceo) and a few key 
employees in the u.s. subsidiaries. the terms and conditions are similar to those applying to the rsu program 
granted to the registered executive management and key employees of the parent company and its non-u.s. 
subsidiaries in february 2020. the rcus granted to the ceo, a total of 30,012, and the rcus granted to the 
key employees, a total of 1,526, will vest three years after grant. vesting is subject to the board of directors’ 
decision on vesting, to lundbeck achieving certain financial targets specified by the board of directors and to 
continuing employment with the group during the vesting period. the size of the amount depends on the value 
of the lundbeck share on the vesting date. the fair value at the time of the initial grant was dkk 258.41 per 
rcu. 
 
in february 2019, lundbeck established an rcu program for the chief executive officer (ceo) and a few key 
employees in the u.s. subsidiaries. the terms and conditions are similar to those applying to the rsu program 
granted in february 2019. the rcus granted to the ceo, a total of 27,917, and the rcus granted to the key 
employees, a total of 1,323, will vest three years after grant. vesting is subject to the board of directors’ decision, 
to lundbeck achieving certain financial targets specified by the board of directors and to continuing 
employment with the lundbeck group during the vesting period. the size of the amount depends on the value 
of the lundbeck share on the vesting date. the fair value at the time of grant was dkk 269.71 per rcu. 
 
the rcus granted in 2016 vested in 2020, after which time the program was settled. no rcus vested in 2019. 
 
fair value, liability and expense recognized in the statement of profit or loss 
the rsus granted are recognized in profit or loss for 2020 at an expense corresponding to the fair value at the 
time of grant for the part of the vesting period that concerns 2020. the total expense recognized in respect of 
equity-settled programs amounted to dkk 30 million (dkk 33 million in 2019). at 31 december 2020, the fair 
value of the remaining equity-settled programs was dkk 89 million (dkk 103 million in 2019). 
 
the rcus granted are recognized in the profit or loss at an expense corresponding to the value adjustment for 
the year based on the performance of the lundbeck share. the total expense recognized in respect of cash-
settled programs amounted to dkk 4 million (dkk 3 million in 2019) and covers all cash-settled programs in 
force in 2020. at 31 december 2020, the total liability in respect of cash-settled programs was dkk 7 million 
(dkk 4 million in 2019) and covers all cash-settled programs in force at 31 december 2020. 
 
the total expense recognized in profit or loss for all incentive programs amounted to dkk 34 million in 2020 
(dkk 36 million in 2019). 
 
 
 
note 15 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 68 / 105   
 
 
 
 
16 provisions 
  
discounts 
and rebates 
product 
returns 
other 
provisions 
total 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
provisions at 1 january 
1,040 
246 
1,020 
2,306 
effect of foreign exchange differences 
(96) 
(17) 
(51) 
(164) 
provisions charged 
2,154 
18 
268 
2,440 
provisions used 
(1,954) 
(68) 
(534) 
(2,556) 
unused provisions reversed 
(142) 
- 
(73) 
(215) 
provisions at 31 december 
1,002 
179 
630 
1,811 
  
  
  
  
  
provisions break down as follows: 
  
  
  
  
non-current provisions 
- 
85 
54 
139 
current provisions 
1,002 
94 
576 
1,672 
provisions at 31 december 
1,002 
179 
630 
1,811 
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
discounts and rebates 
the most significant sales deductions are in the u.s. and comprises discounts and rebates given in connection 
with sales under the u.s. federal and state government healthcare programs, primarily medicaid. 
 
management’s estimate of discounts and rebates is based on a calculation which includes a combination of 
historical product/population utilization mix, price increases, program/market growth and state-specific 
information. further, the calculation of rebates involves legal interpretation of relevant regulations and is subject 
to changes in interpretive guidance from governmental authorities. the obligations for discounts and rebates 
are incurred at the time the sale is recorded; however, the actual rebate related to a specific sale may be 
invoiced by the authorities six to nine months later. in addition to this billing time lag, there is no statute of 
limitations for states to submit rebate claims; thus, rebate adjustments in any particular period may relate to 
sales from a prior period. moreover, when a product loses exclusivity, shifts in payer mix may cause medicaid 
claims/estimates to be more volatile. 
 
product returns 
the group has product return obligations normal for the industry. management does not expect any major 
losses from these obligations apart from the amount already recognized. 
 
other provisions 
of other provisions at 31 december 2020, dkk 161 million (dkk 337 million in 2019) relates to restructuring 
programs. in addition, other provisions comprise liabilities relating to items such as legal disputes. 
 
 
17 contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
pending legal proceedings 
lundbeck is involved in a number of legal proceedings, including patent disputes, the most significant of which 
are described below. in the opinion of management, the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material 
impact on the financial position or cash flows beyond the amount already provided for in the financial statements, 
or it is too uncertain to make a reliable provision. such proceedings will, however, develop over time, and new 
proceedings may occur which could have a material impact on the financial position and/or cash flows.  
 
in june 2013, lundbeck received the european commission’s decision that agreements concluded with four 
generic competitors concerning citalopram violated competition law. the decision included fining lundbeck 
eur 93.8 million (approximately dkk 700 million). lundbeck paid and expensed the fine in the third quarter of 
2013. in september 2016, lundbeck announced that the general court of the european union had delivered 
its judgment concerning lundbeck’s appeal against the european commission’s 2013 decision. lundbeck’s 
appeal was rejected by the general court. lundbeck has appealed the judgment to the european court of 
justice. an oral hearing was conducted by the european court of justice in january 2019. the advocate 
general delivered her opinion to the european court of justice on 4 june 2020. in the opinion, the advocate 
general proposes that the european court of justice should uphold the fine of eur 93.8 million imposed on 
lundbeck. the final judgment will be delivered on 25 march 2021. so called “follow-on claims” for 
reimbursement of alleged losses, resulting from alleged violation of competition law, often arise when decisions 
and fines issued by the european commission are upheld by the european court of justice. health authorities 
in the uk and the netherlands have taken formal protective steps against lundbeck with the principal purpose 
of preventing potential claims from being time-barred under the applicable statutes of limitation. lundbeck 
expects no further material development in these matters until after the european court of justice has issued 
its final judgment.  
 
 
notes 16-17 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 69 / 105   
 
 
 
 
17 contingent assets and contingent liabilities - continued 
in canada, lundbeck is involved in three product liability class-action lawsuits relating to cipralex®/celexa® 
(two cases alleging various celexa® induced birth defects and one case against several ssri manufacturers 
(incl. lundbeck) alleging that ssri (celexa®/lexapro®) induces autism birth defect); three relating to abilify 
maintena® (alleging i.a. failure to warn about compulsive behavior side effects), and one relating to rexulti® 
(also alleging i.a. failure to warn about compulsive behavior side effects). the cases are in the preliminary 
stages and as such there is significant uncertainty as to how these lawsuits will be resolved. lundbeck strongly 
disagrees with the claims raised.  
 
in 2018, lundbeck entered into settlements with three of four generic companies involved in an australian 
federal court case, in which lundbeck was pursuing patent infringement and damages claims over the sale of 
escitalopram products in australia. lundbeck received aud 51.7 million (dkk 242 million) in 2018. in 
lundbeck’s case against the last of the four generic companies, sandoz pty ltd, the federal court found that 
sandoz pty ltd had infringed lundbeck’s escitalopram patent between 2009 and 2012 and awarded lundbeck 
aud 26.3 million in damages. sandoz’ appeal of the decision was heard in may 2019, and the full federal 
court in august 2020 allowed sandoz' appeal and decided that sandoz is not liable for damages. lundbeck’s 
application for special leave to appeal the decision to the high court will be heard in february 2021.  
 
together with takeda, lundbeck has instituted patent infringement proceedings against 16 generic companies 
that have applied for marketing authorization for generic versions of trintellix® in the u.s. two opponents have 
withdrawn and lundbeck has now settled with eight opponents. the cases against the six remaining opponents 
continue. the trial with the six opponents was in late january 2021 and decision is currently expected within 
seven months after the trial. lundbeck has strong confidence in its vortioxetine patents. the fda cannot grant 
marketing authorization to the generic companies unless they receive a decision in their favor. the compound 
patent, including patent term extensions, will expire in the u.s. on 17 december 2026. lundbeck has other 
patents relating to vortioxetine with expiry in the period until 2032.  
 
together with otsuka, lundbeck has instituted patent infringement proceedings against several generic 
companies that have applied for marketing authorization for generic versions of rexulti® in the u.s. lundbeck 
has strong confidence in the rexulti® patents. the fda cannot grant marketing authorization in the u.s. to the 
generic companies before the patents expire unless the generic companies receive decisions in their favor.  
 
in february 2019, alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (now a wholly owned subsidiary of lundbeck llc and 
subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle biopharmaceuticals, inc.) terminated a development and 
manufacturing services agreement (dmsa) with lonza ltd. (lonza), based on material breaches of that 
agreement by lonza. in april 2019, lonza filed a claim for arbitration with the american arbitration association 
(aaa), asserting claims for breach of contract and declaratory judgment arising from the termination. the case 
was settled in january 2021 with no significant impact on the financial position at 31 december 2020.  
 
lundbeck received a civil investigative demand (cid) from the u.s. department of justice (doj) in march 
2020. the cid seeks information regarding the sales, marketing, and promotion of trintellix. lundbeck is 
cooperating with the doj.  
 
joint taxation 
h. lundbeck a/s and danish subsidiaries are part of a danish joint taxation scheme with lundbeckfonden 
(lundbeckfond invest a/s including subsidiaries of lundbeckfond invest a/s), according to which the company 
has partly a joint and several liability and partly a secondary liability with respect to corporate income taxes etc. 
for the jointly-taxed companies. in addition, h. lundbeck a/s has partly a joint and several liability and partly a 
secondary liability with respect to any obligations to withhold tax on interest, royalties and dividends for these 
companies. however, in both cases the secondary liability is capped at an amount equal to the share of the 
capital of the company directly or indirectly owned by the ultimate parent company. the total tax obligation 
under the joint taxation scheme is shown in the financial statements of lundbeckfond invest a/s. 
 
 
note 17 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 70 / 105   
 
 
 
 
18 bank debt, bond debt and borrowings  
  
2020 
2019 
bank debt and bond debt maturing within below periods from the balance sheet date 
dkkm 
dkkm 
within one year 
2,000 
2,000 
between three and four years 
1,698 
7,062 
after more than five years 
3,699 
- 
bank debt and bond debt at 31 december 
7,397 
9,062 
  
  
  
 
bank debt and bond debt breaks down as follows: 
  
  
non-current liabilities 
5,397 
7,062 
current liabilities 
2,000 
2,000 
bank debt and bond debt at 31 december 
7,397 
9,062 
  
  
  
 
 
currency 
expiry of 
commitment 
fixed/ 
floating 
weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate 
amortized 
cost 
nominal 
value 
fair 
value 
  
  
  
  
% 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank loan 
dkk 
oct 2021 
floating 
0.80 
2,000 
2,000 
2,000 
bank loan 
usd 
jun 2024 
floating 
1.11 
1,698 
1,698 
1,698 
issued bonds 
eur 
oct 2027 
fixed 
0.88 
3,699 
3,720 
3,781 
total 
  
  
  
  
7,397 
7,418 
7,479 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank loan 
dkk 
oct 2020 
floating 
0.65 
2,000 
2,000 
2,000 
bank loan 
usd 
jun 2023 
floating 
2.80 
3,326 
3,326 
3,326 
bank loan 
eur 
jun 2023 
floating 
0.55 
3,736 
3,736 
3,736 
total 
  
  
  
  
9,062 
9,062 
9,062 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
the dkk 2 billion bank loan has been swapped into usd using cross-currency swaps expiring in october 2021. 
the total nominal value of the cross-currency swaps amounts to usd -295 million and dkk +2 billion. at 31 
december 2020, the interest rates were 0.94% (floating) for the usd leg and 0% (fixed) for the dkk leg. the 
cross-currency swaps as well as the usd bank loan are designated as hedging of net investments.
a large part of the usd funding, including bank loan and cross-currency swaps, has been swapped into fixed 
interest rates by interest rate swaps. the nominal amounts of the interest rate swaps follow the expected 
repayment profile of the usd debt until they expire in 2023. the total outstanding amount of the interest rate 
swaps as of 31 december 2020 was usd 290 million, and the average interest rate was 1.56% for the fixed 
legs and 0.22% for the floating legs. 
 
in 2019, the dkk loan was swapped into usd using cross-currency swaps, expiring in october 2020 and with 
an average fixed interest rate of 2.58% for the usd leg and 0% for dkk leg. usd 450 million of the usd loan 
(totalling usd 500 million) was swapped into fixed interest by interest rate swaps with a four-year tenor and an 
average fixed interest rate of 1.56%. 
 
the eurobond is issued with a fixed coupon until october 2027. 
 
amortized cost is calculated as the proceeds received less instalments paid, plus or minus amortization of 
capital gains or losses. 
 
development in bank debt, bond debt and borrowings 
  
balance at  
1 january 
additions 
through 
acquisitions 
cash inflow 
cash 
outflow 
non-cash 
flow 
balance at  
31 december 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank loans 
9,062 
- 
- 
(5,169) 
(195) 
3,698 
issued bonds 
- 
- 
3,701 
- 
(2) 
3,699 
total bank debt and bond debt 
9,062 
- 
3,701 
(5,169) 
(197) 
7,397 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank loans 
- 
- 
11,095 
(2,010) 
(23) 
9,062 
borrowings 
- 
2,053 
- 
(2,070) 
17 
- 
total bank debt and borrowings 
- 
2,053 
11,095 
(4,080) 
(6) 
9,062 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
note 18 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 71 / 105   
 
 
 
 
19 other payables 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
contingent consideration 
1,108 
1,128 
other payables  
82 
59 
non-current payables 
1,190 
1,187 
  
  
  
contingent consideration 
- 
96 
other payables  
1,846 
1,573 
current payables 
1,846 
1,669 
  
  
  
 
contingent consideration recognized in acquisition of businesses in 2019 
as part of the acquisition of alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle 
biopharmaceuticals, inc.), lundbeck is required to pay a contingent value right (cvr) of usd 2.00 per share 
upon european approval of eptinezumab. the cvr has a value of up to usd 236 million. at 31 december 
2020, the fair value of the cvr amounted to dkk 1,059 million (dkk 1,080 million in 2019). 
 
the cvr was recognized as a contingent consideration at fair value at the acquisition date. key inputs to the 
fair value of the cvr are the promise to pay a fixed price per share acquired, probability of success weighted 
by the possible outcomes and lundbeck’s wacc (weighted average cost of capital). the probability of success 
used for calculating the fair value of the cvr is based on the bio/medtracker 2016 publication. 
 
as part of the acquisition of abide therapeutics, inc., inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck la jolla research 
center, inc.), lundbeck is required to pay up to usd 150 million in future development and sales milestones 
dependent on predefined milestones being reached. at 31 december 2020, the fair value of the contingent 
consideration amounted to dkk 49 million (dkk 144 million in 2019). 
 
contingent consideration is recognized at fair value. the calculation of the fair value is based on the discounted 
cash flow method (dcf method) which comprises significant assumptions and estimates. key inputs are 
expected timing of payment (using a specific discount rate) and probability of success.  
 
 
20 financial instruments 
foreign currency risks 
foreign currency management is handled centrally by the parent company. currency management focuses on 
risk mitigation and is carried out in conformity with the group's treasury policy, as approved by the board of 
directors. 
 
foreign currency risks managed by derivatives and loans in 2020 comprise cash flow risk in several currencies 
and usd translation risk emanating from net investments in foreign subsidiaries. 
 
the parent company hedges a part of the group’s anticipated revenue in selected currencies for a period of 
12-18 months using forward exchange contracts and in some cases currency options. hedging is performed 
on a rolling basis each month. the forward exchange contracts and currency options are classified as hedging 
instruments when meeting the accounting criteria for hedge accounting according to ifrs 9 financial 
instruments. unhedged cash flows are sold spot. changes in the fair value of all instruments meeting the criteria 
for hedge accounting are recognized in the statement of comprehensive income as they arise. at maturity of 
the hedge contracts, the final effect is transferred from other comprehensive income and recognized in the 
profit or loss or balance sheet together with the hedged item. 
forward exchange contracts and currency options that do not meet the hedge accounting criteria are classified 
as trading contracts, and changes in the fair value are recognized under financial income or financial expenses 
as they arise. 
 
cash flow timing and changes to the forecasted amounts are the main sources for evaluating the risk of hedge 
ineffectiveness. when concluding a hedge transaction, and each time presenting the financial statements 
thereafter, it is assessed whether the hedged exposure and the hedging instrument are still financially 
correlated. if the hedged cash flows are no longer expected to be realised, the accumulated value change is 
transferred to financial income or financial expenses. 
 
lundbeck did not have any hedge ineffectiveness in 2020 or 2019. 
 
 
notes 19-20 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 72 / 105   
 
 
 
 
20 financial instruments - continued 
  
contract 
amount 
according to 
hedge 
accounting 
fair value  
at year-end  
recognized in  
the statement of 
comprehensive 
income/other 
receivables 
fair value 
at year-end 
recognized in  
the statement of 
comprehensive 
income/other 
payables 
realized 
exchange 
gains/losses 
for the year 
recognized in 
the statement 
of profit or 
loss/ 
statement of 
financial 
position 
average 
hedge 
prices 
of existing 
forward 
exchange 
contracts 
maturity 
forward exchange contracts 
(against dkk) 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkk 
  
2020 
  
  
  
  
  
  
cad (sell position) 
383 
2 
(1) 
7 
475.46 
dec. 2021 
cny (sell position) 
458 
3 
(5) 
- 
91.71 
oct. 2021 
jpy (sell position) 
294 
8 
- 
5 
6.04 
oct. 2021 
usd (sell position) 
3,337 
225 
- 
(55) 
648.01 
oct. 2021 
other currencies 
1,172 
14 
(41) 
48 
  
dec. 2021 
total 
  
252 
(47) 
5 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
cad (sell position) 
300 
- 
(9) 
(17) 
492.68 
oct. 2020 
cny (sell position) 
289 
1 
(3) 
(25) 
93.79 
oct. 2020 
jpy (sell position) 
344 
4 
(2) 
(17) 
6.15 
nov. 2020 
usd (sell position) 
2,594 
2 
(74) 
(210) 
640.47 
oct. 2020 
other currencies 
1,364 
3 
(25) 
(31) 
  
dec. 2020 
total 
  
10 
(113) 
(300) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
net foreign exchange contracts, trading 
there were no outstanding forward exchange contracts relating to trading in december 2020 and no material 
impact from trading contracts was recognized in financial income or financial expenses in 2020. 
 
hedges of net investment 
lundbeck has hedged part of the translation risk emanating from its net investments in foreign subsidiaries in 
the u.s. by taking out bank debt in usd and by entering two cross-currency swaps, converting dkk bank debt 
into usd. thereby, lundbeck decreases the negative impact that a weaker usd will have on the value of its 
u.s. assets, as a decrease in the value of the debt portfolio will offset part of this impact. lundbeck designates 
the usd bank debt and the cross-currency swaps as hedges of net investment, and the exchange rate 
adjustments are recognized in other comprehensive income. the hedges of net investment are considered to 
be effective as long as there is a clear financial correlation between how a change in the exchange rate impacts 
the net investment in subsidiaries and the hedges of net investment. for more information about the net 
investment hedges, see note 18 bank debt, bond debt and borrowings. 
 
monetary assets and monetary liabilities for the main currencies at 31 december 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
monetary assets 
  
  
cad 
55 
78 
cny 
65 
111 
eur 
183 
330 
usd 
607 
595 
  
  
  
monetary liabilities 
  
  
cny 
15 
- 
eur 
3,834 
3,866 
usd 
3,723 
5,486 
  
  
  
 
monetary assets and monetary liabilities include trade receivables, other receivables, securities, cash, bank 
debt and bond debt (including interest rate swaps), lease liabilities, trade payables, other payables, deferred 
taxes and income taxes. the balances exclude all intra-group balances and monetary assets and monetary 
liabilities in entities where the currency of the assets/liabilities and the functional currency are identical.  
 
 
note 20 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 73 / 105   
 
 
 
 
20 financial instruments - continued 
estimated impact from financial instruments on profit for the year and equity from a 5% increase in 
year-end exchange rates of the major currencies 
  
cad 
cny 
usd 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
profit for the year 
4 
(2) 
(78) 
equity 
(18) 
(25) 
(330) 
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
profit for the year 
4 
- 
2 
equity 
(11) 
(15) 
(396) 
 
the shown sensitivities only comprise impact from lundbeck’s financial instruments and reflect a relative 
change of the exchange rates at 31 december 2020 and 2019. 
 
the profit impact comprises financial instruments that remained open at the balance sheet date and which have 
an impact on profit in the current financial year. it includes foreign exchange differences relating to intra-group 
balances that are not eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. the calculation of the estimated 
impact is based on the functional currency of the entities where the monetary assets and liabilities are located. 
the profit impact is limited as the largest liabilities are exchange rate adjusted in other comprehensive income, 
being part of lundbeck’s hedging structure.  
 
the equity impact includes financial instruments that remained open at the balance sheet date and which are 
exchange rate adjusted in other comprehensive income. the equity effect in 2020 and 2019 primarily consists 
of exchange rate adjustments on bank loans and cross-currency swaps in usd that are designated as hedges 
of net investment and foreign exchange differences on outstanding cash flow hedging contracts.  
 
due to denmark’s long-standing fixed exchange rate policy against the euro and the expected continuation of 
this policy, the foreign currency risk for euro is considered immaterial, and euro is therefore not included in the 
table above. 
 
interest rate risks 
lundbeck ensures that the interest rate risk is managed according to the treasury policy. interest rate risk 
relates mainly to outstanding interest-bearing debt with floating interest rates. 
 
interest rate risk management is handled centrally by the parent company. through the group’s treasury policy, 
the board of directors has approved the limits for borrowing and investment. loans secured by property must be 
approved by the board of directors. only a limited part of the total loan portfolio is allowed to have floating interest 
rates, and to hedge the interest rate risk on loans, the board of directors has approved the use of interest rate 
swaps (irs), caps, floors and forward rate agreements (fras). 
 
lundbeck’s exposure to interest rate risk is considered limited due to the eur 500 million bond being issued 
with a fixed coupon until 2027 and the usd funding to a large extent being swapped into fixed interest through 
interest rate swaps. for more information about interest rate swaps, see note 18 bank debt, bond debt and 
borrowings.  
 
an interest rate change on bank debt and bond debt, including interest rate swaps, of +/- 1 percentage point 
would decrease/increase profit for the year before tax by dkk 15 million (dkk 38 million  in 2019) and 
increase/decrease equity by dkk 56 million in 2020 (dkk 63 million in 2019) on an annual basis.  
 
the below table includes undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments, and assumes that the liabilities 
will be repaid at their contractual maturity dates.   
 
see note 19 other payables for details on the obligations relating to contingent consideration.  
see note 18 bank debt, bond debt and borrowings for details on the bank debt and bond debt. 
 
 
note 20  
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 74 / 105   
 
 
 
 
20 financial instruments - continued 
classification of and contractual maturity dates for financial assets and financial liabilities 
  
within 1 year 
between  
1 and 5 years 
after 5 years 
total 
effective  
interest rates 
2020 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
% 
financial assets 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - fx 
252 
- 
- 
252 
0 
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - interest 
15 
7 
- 
22 
0-2 
derivatives to hedge net investments 
209 
- 
- 
209 
0-2 
financial assets measured at fvtoci¹ 
476 
7 
- 
483 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
other financial assets   
- 
- 
116 
116 
0 
other financial assets measured at fvtpl² 
- 
- 
116 
116 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
receivables³ 
2,941 
104 
- 
3,045 
0 
cash and bank balances 
3,924 
- 
- 
3,924 
(1)-10 
financial assets measured at amortized cost 
6,865 
104 
- 
6,969 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
total financial assets 
7,341 
111 
116 
7,568 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
financial liabilities 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - fx 
47 
- 
- 
47 
0 
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - interest 
46 
58 
- 
104 
0-2 
financial liabilities measured at fvtoci¹ 
93 
58 
- 
151 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
contingent consideration⁴ 
- 
1,087 
21 
1,108 
  
other financial liabilities measured at fvtpl² 
- 
1,087 
21 
1,108 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank and bond debt 
2,063 
1,865 
3,786 
7,714 
0-2 
lease liabilities 
77 
229 
187 
493 
1-8 
trade and other payables 
5,896 
82 
- 
5,978 
0 
financial liabilities measured at amortized 
cost 
8,036 
2,176 
3,973 
14,185 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
total financial liabilities 
8,129 
3,321 
3,994 
15,444 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) fair value through other comprehensive income. 
  
2) fair value through profit or loss. 
  
3) including other receivables recognized in non-current assets. 
  
4) see note 19 other payables. 
  
 
 
 
  
within 1 year 
between 
 1 and 5 years 
after 5 years 
total 
effective  
interest rates 
2019 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
% 
financial assets 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - fx 
10 
- 
- 
10 
0 
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - interest 
8 
- 
- 
8 
0-3 
derivatives to hedge net investments 
62 
- 
- 
62 
0-3 
financial assets measured at fvtoci¹ 
80 
- 
- 
80 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
other financial assets 
- 
- 
60 
60 
0 
securities 
4 
- 
- 
4 
0-1 
other financial assets measured at fvtpl² 
4 
- 
60 
64 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
receivables³ 
3,540 
101 
- 
3,641 
0 
cash and bank balances 
3,008 
- 
- 
3,008 
(1)-10 
financial assets measured at amortized cost 
6,548 
101 
- 
6,649 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
total financial assets 
6,632 
101 
60 
6,793 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
financial liabilities 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
derivatives to hedge future cash flows - fx 
113 
- 
- 
113 
0 
financial liabilities measured at fvtoci¹ 
113 
- 
- 
113 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
contingent consideration⁴ 
96 
1,081 
47 
1,224 
  
other financial liabilities measured at fvtpl² 
96 
1,081 
47 
1,224 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
bank debt 
2,113 
7,309 
- 
9,422 
0-3 
lease liabilities 
79 
229 
208 
516 
1-8 
trade and other payables 
5,944 
59 
- 
6,003 
0 
financial liabilities measured at amortized 
cost 
8,136 
7,597 
208 
15,941 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
total financial liabilities 
8,345 
8,678 
255 
17,278 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
note 20 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 75 / 105   
 
 
 
 
20 financial instruments – continued 
  
level 1 
level 2 
level 3 
financial assets and financial liabilities measured  
or disclosed at fair value 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
2020 
  
  
  
financial assets 
  
  
  
other financial assets¹ 
81 
- 
35 
derivatives¹ 
- 
697 
- 
total 
81 
697 
35 
  
  
  
  
financial liabilities 
  
  
  
contingent consideration¹ 
- 
- 
1,108 
derivatives¹ 
- 
365 
- 
bank debt² 
- 
3,698 
- 
bond debt² 
3,781 
- 
- 
total 
3,781 
4,063 
1,108 
  
  
  
  
2019 
  
  
  
financial assets 
  
  
  
securities¹ 
4 
- 
- 
other financial assets¹ 
20 
- 
40 
derivatives¹ 
- 
80 
- 
total 
24 
80 
40 
  
  
  
  
financial liabilities 
  
  
  
contingent consideration¹ 
- 
- 
1,224 
derivatives¹ 
- 
113 
- 
bank debt² 
- 
9,062 
- 
total 
- 
9,175 
1,224 
  
  
  
  
1) measured at fair value. 
  
  
  
2) disclosed at fair value.  
  
  
  
 
the fair value of securities is based on publicly quoted prices of the invested assets. the fair value of derivatives 
is calculated by applying recognized measurement techniques, whereby assumptions are based on the market 
conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date. the fair value of contingent consideration is calculated as the 
discounted cash outflows (dcf method) from future milestone payments, taking probability of success into 
consideration. the fair value adjustment of contingent consideration amounts to a net gain of dkk 3 million 
and is the result of changes in the time value of the contingent value rights and the milestone relating to the 
phase iia study results of lu ag06466 not being met. total contingent consideration amounted to dkk 1,108 
million at 31 december 2020 (dkk 1,224 million at 31 december 2019). besides the fair value adjustment, the 
only change in contingent consideration is exchange rate adjustments of dkk 113 million. 
 
the carrying amount of other receivables, trade receivables, prepayments, bank debt, other debt, trade 
payables and other payables is believed to be equal to or close to fair value. 
 
 
21 audit fees 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
statutory audit 
10 
10 
other opinions 
- 
- 
tax consulting 
4 
1 
other services 
1 
9 
total 
15 
20 
  
  
  
 
a few minor foreign subsidiaries are not audited by the parent company’s auditor, a foreign business partner 
of the auditor, or by a recognized, international auditing firm. 
 
at the annual general meeting held on 24 march 2020, pricewaterhousecoopers statsautoriseret 
revisionspartnerselskab 
was 
elected 
as 
lundbeck’s 
external 
auditor. 
deloitte 
statsautoriseret 
revisionspartnerselskab was lundbeck’s external auditor in 2019. 
 
the fee for non-audit services provided to the group by pricewaterhousecoopers statsautoriseret 
revisionspartnerselskab, denmark, amounted to dkk 4 million during 2020 and consisted of tax services 
relating to expatriates and transfer pricing, advisory services relating to cyber risk, other auditor reports on 
various statements to public authorities, and other accounting and tax advisory services. 
 
 
notes 20-21 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 76 / 105   
 
 
 
 
22 contractual obligations 
research and development milestones and collaborations 
the group has entered into a number of agreements relating to research and development. according to the 
agreements, lundbeck is committed to pay certain milestones. at 31 december 2020, potential future milestone 
payments covering the coming ten-year period totalled up to approximately dkk 300 million (approximately 
dkk 1,750 million in 2019). in addition, the group is part of multi-year research and development collaboration 
projects comprising minimum collaboration obligations in the order of dkk 1 million (dkk 10 million in 2019). 
 
sales milestones 
lundbeck is committed to pay certain commercial sales milestones. the amounts depend on future sales. 
 
other purchase obligations 
the group has undertaken purchase obligations in the amount of dkk 1,102 million (dkk 1,828 million in 
2019), the majority of which relates to service contracts. in addition, the group has undertaken purchase 
obligations relating to property, plant and equipment in the amount of dkk 126 million (dkk 138 million in 
2019). furthermore, the group has entered into service agreements amounting to dkk 227 million (dkk 290 
million in 2019). 
 
 
23 related parties 
lundbeck’s related parties 
• the parent company’s principal shareholder, lundbeckfonden (lundbeckfond invest a/s), scherfigsvej 7, 
2100 copenhagen, denmark. 
• companies in which lundbeckfonden exercises controlling influence, including alk-abelló a/s and  
falck a/s. 
• members of the parent company’s registered executive management and board of directors as well as close 
relatives of these persons. 
• companies in which members of the parent company’s registered executive management and board of 
directors as well as close relatives of these persons exercise controlling influence. 
 
transactions and balances with lundbeckfonden 
there have been the following transactions and balances with lundbeckfonden: 
• payment of dividends of dkk 563 million in 2020 (dkk 1,648 million in 2019). 
• payment of provisional tax of dkk 101 million in 2020 (dkk 100 million in 2019) for the parent company and 
danish subsidiaries. 
• refund of residual tax of dkk 64 million in 2020 (dkk 70 million in 2019) for the parent company and danish 
subsidiaries. 
• interest expense of dkk 1 million in 2020 (income of dkk 0 million in 2019). 
 
lundbeckfonden exercises controlling influence on h. lundbeck a/s. 
 
transactions and balances with the alk group 
there have been no transactions or balances with the alk group. 
 
transactions and balances with the falck group 
there have been no material transactions or balances with the falck group. 
 
transactions and balances with the registered executive management and the board of directors 
in addition to the transactions with members of the registered executive management and the board of 
directors outlined in notes 3 employee costs and 15 incentive programs, the parent company has paid 
dividends on shares held by members of the registered executive management and the board of directors in 
h. lundbeck a/s. at 31 december 2020 and 31 december 2019, there were no balances with the registered 
executive management and the board of directors. 
 
transactions and balances with other related parties 
other than the above, there have been no material transactions or balances with other related parties. 
notes 22-23 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 77 / 105   
 
 
 
 
24 list of subsidiaries 
the list below shows the subsidiaries in the group. 
  
  
share of voting rights 
and ownership 
  
purpose 
% 
lundbeck argentina s.a., argentina  
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck australia pty ltd, australia, including  
sales and distribution 
100 
- cns pharma pty ltd, australia  
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck austria gmbh, austria 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck s.a., belgium 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck brasil ltda., brazil 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck canada inc., canada 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck chile farmacéutica ltda., chile 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck (beijing) pharmaceuticals consulting co., ltd., china 
sale services 
100 
lundbeck colombia s.a.s., colombia 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck croatia d.o.o., croatia 
sale services 
100 
lundbeck czech republic s.r.o., czech republic 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck export a/s, denmark 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck pharma a/s, denmark 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck eesti a/s, estonia 
sales and distribution 
100 
oy h. lundbeck ab, finland 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck sas, france 
sales and distribution 
100 
sofipharm sa, france, including 
other 
100 
- laboratoire elaiapharm sa, france 
production 
100 
lundbeck gmbh, germany 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck hellas s.a., greece 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck hk limited, hong kong 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck hungária kft, hungary 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck india private limited, india 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck (ireland) ltd., ireland 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck israel ltd., israel 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck italia s.p.a., italy 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck pharmaceuticals, italy s.p.a., italy, including 
production 
100 
- archid s.a., luxembourg 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck japan k.k., japan 
sale services 
100 
lundbeck korea co., ltd., republic of korea 
sales and distribution 
100 
sia lundbeck latvia, latvia 
sale services 
100 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
share of voting rights 
and ownership 
  
purpose 
% 
uab lundbeck lietuva, lithuania 
sale services 
100 
lundbeck malaysia sdn. bhd., malaysia 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck méxico, sa de cv, mexico 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck b.v., the netherlands 
sales and distribution 
100 
prexton therapeutics b.v., the netherlands, including 
other 
100 
- prexton therapeutics s.a., switzerland 
other 
100 
lundbeck new zealand limited, new zealand 
other 
100 
h. lundbeck as, norway 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck pakistan (private) limited, pakistan 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck america central s.a., panama 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck peru s.a.c., peru 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck philippines inc., philippines 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck business service centre sp.z.o.o., poland 
other 
100 
lundbeck poland sp.z.o.o., poland 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck portugal - produtos farmacêuticos unipessoal lda, 
portugal 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck romania srl, romania 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck rus ooo, russian federation 
sale services 
100 
lundbeck singapore pte. ltd., singapore 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck slovensko s.r.o., slovakia 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck pharma d.o.o., slovenia 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck south africa (pty) limited, south africa, including 
sales and distribution 
100 
- h. lundbeck (proprietary) limited, south africa 
other 
100 
lundbeck españa s.a., spain 
sales and distribution 
100 
h. lundbeck ab, sweden 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck (schweiz) ag, switzerland 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck İlaç ticaret limited Şirketi, turkey 
sales and distribution 
100 
lundbeck group ltd. (holding), uk, including 
other 
100 
- lundbeck limited, uk 
sales and distribution 
100 
- lundbeck pharmaceuticals ltd., uk 
other 
100 
- lifehealth limited, uk 
other 
100 
- lundbeck uk llp, uk¹ 
other 
100 
 
note 24 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 78 / 105   
 
 
 
 
24 list of subsidiaries – continued 
  
  
share of voting rights 
and ownership 
  
purpose 
% 
lundbeck usa holding llc, usa, including 
other 
100 
- lundbeck llc, usa, including 
sales and distribution 
100 
 - chelsea therapeutics international, ltd., usa, including 
other 
100 
  - lundbeck na ltd., usa 
other 
100 
 - lundbeck pharmaceuticals llc, usa 
other 
100 
 - lundbeck research usa, inc., usa 
other 
100 
 - lundbeck la jolla research center, inc., usa, including 
research and development 
100 
  - abide therapeutics (uk) limited, uk 
other  
100 
 - lundbeck seattle biopharmaceuticals, inc., usa, including 
research and development 
100 
  - alder biopharmaceuticals pty., ltd., australia 
other 
100 
  - alder biopharmaceuticals limited, ireland 
other 
100 
  - alderbio holdings llc ("anev"), usa 
other 
100 
lundbeck de venezuela, c.a., venezuela 
sales and distribution 
100 
  
  
  
1) lundbeck uk llp is owned by lundbeck group ltd. (holding), lundbeck limited and lifehealth limited, all of which have h. lundbeck a/s 
as their direct or ultimate parent company. 
 
lundbeck china holding a/s and lundbeck insurance a/s were liquidated in 2020. 
 
in 2019, lundbeck acquired alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle 
biopharmaceuticals, inc.) and abide therapeutics, inc., (subsequently renamed lundbeck la jolla research 
center, inc.). 
 
 
25 subsequent events 
no events of importance to the annual report have occurred during the period from the balance sheet date 
until the presentation of the consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
notes 24-25 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 79 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies 
the group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these 
consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise mentioned (see note 1.7 standards issued but not yet 
effective).  
 
lundbeck has made some reclassifications in the statement of financial position with effect from 2020. 
discounts and rebates, previously recognized in other payables, are reclassified to provisions. contingent 
consideration is reclassified to other payables. management believes that the new presentation better reflects 
the nature of the group's operations and is more aligned with industry practice. the comparative figures for 
2019 have been reclassified accordingly. there has been no impact on profit or loss for the years. 
 
basis of consolidation 
the consolidated financial statements comprise the parent company h. lundbeck a/s and entities controlled 
by the parent company. 
 
translation of foreign currency 
on initial recognition, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at standard rates which 
approximate the exchange rates at the transaction date. exchange differences arising between the exchange 
rates at the transaction date and the exchange rates at the date of payment are recognized in profit or loss 
under financial income or financial expenses. 
 
receivables, payables and other monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that have not been settled 
at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. the differences 
between the exchange rates at the balance sheet date and the rates at the time of recognition or settlement 
are recognized in profit or loss under financial income or financial expenses. 
 
on recognition of foreign subsidiaries having a functional currency different from that used by the parent 
company, items in the profit or loss are translated at monthly average exchange rates, and non-monetary and 
monetary balance sheet items are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. exchange 
differences arising when translating  the profit or loss and the balance sheet of foreign subsidiaries are 
recognized in other comprehensive income. 
 
exchange gains/losses on translation of receivables from and payables to subsidiaries that are considered part 
of the parent company’s overall net investment in subsidiaries are recognized in other comprehensive income.  
 
exchange gains/losses on that part of the bank debt in foreign currency which is used for hedging of the net 
investments in subsidiaries and which provides an effective hedging of the exchange gains/losses of the net 
investments are recognized in other comprehensive income 
 
statement of cash flows 
the consolidated statement of cash flows is presented in accordance with the indirect method and shows the 
composition of cash flows, divided into operating, investing and financing activities, and cash and bank 
balances at the beginning and end of the year. 
 
cash comprises cash and bank balances. 
 
cash flows denominated in foreign currencies, including cash flows in foreign subsidiaries, are translated at the 
average exchange rates for the year as they approximate the actual exchange rates at the date of payment. 
cash and bank balances at year-end are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date, and the 
effect of exchange gains/losses on cash and bank balances is shown as a separate line item in the statement 
of cash flows. 
 
financial instruments 
forward exchange contracts and other derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet at fair value on 
the contract date and subsequently remeasured at fair value at the balance sheet date. the fair value of 
derivatives is determined by applying recognized measurement techniques, whereby assumptions are based 
on the market conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date. positive and negative fair values are included in 
other receivables and other payables, respectively. 
 
changes in the fair value of derivatives classified as hedging instruments and meeting the criteria for hedge 
accounting are recognized in other comprehensive income. on recognition of hedged items, income and 
expenses relating to such hedging transactions are transferred from other comprehensive income and 
recognized in the same line item as the hedged item. 
 
changes in the fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are recognized in the statement of 
profit or loss under financial income or financial expenses as they arise. 
 
securities, equity investments recognized in other financial assets, derivatives and contingent consideration 
measured at fair value are classified according to the fair value hierarchy as belonging to levels 1-3 depending 
on the valuation method applied. 
 
note 26 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 80 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies – continued 
statement of profit or loss 
revenue 
revenue comprises invoiced sales less expected return of goods for the year, discounts, rebates and revenue-
based taxes. revenue is recognized when the goods are delivered at the agreed destination. 
 
moreover, revenue includes licensing income and royalties from out-licensed products, non-refundable 
downpayments and milestone payments relating to research and development collaborations, and income from 
collaborations on commercialization of products.  
 
sales-based licensing and royalty income from out-licensed products are recognized in profit or loss under 
revenue, when the group provides access to its product rights as it exists throughout the license period. as the 
performance obligations are satisfied over time, the revenue is also recognized over time. 
 
when the group provides a customer the right to use the product rights as it exists at the point in time at which 
the license is granted, revenue is recognized at a point in time when control is transferred to the licensee and 
the license period begins when the customer's rights to the intellectual property is transferred.  
 
non-refundable downpayments and milestone payments received relating to research collaborations are 
recognized in profit or loss under revenue.  
 
cost of sales 
cost of sales comprises cost of goods sold, which includes the cost of raw materials, transportation costs, 
consumables and goods for resale, direct labour and indirect costs of production, including operating costs, 
and amortization/depreciation and impairment losses relating to product rights and manufacturing facilities. 
 
sales and distribution costs 
sales and distribution costs comprise costs incurred for the sale and distribution of the group’s products sold 
during the year. this includes costs incurred for sales campaigns, training and administration of the sales force 
and for direct distribution, marketing and promotion. also included are salaries and other costs for the sales, 
distribution and marketing functions, amortization/depreciation and impairment losses and other indirect costs. 
 
administrative expenses 
administrative expenses comprise expenses incurred for the management and administration of the group, i.e. 
salaries and other expenses relating to e.g. management, hr, it and finance functions as well as 
amortization/depreciation and impairment losses and other indirect costs. 
research and development costs 
research and development costs comprise costs incurred for the group’s research and development functions, 
i.e. employee costs, amortization/depreciation and impairment losses and other indirect costs as well as costs 
relating to research and development collaborations. 
 
research costs are always recognized in profit or loss as they are incurred. 
 
due to a very long development period and the significant uncertainties inherent in the development of new 
products, development costs are expensed as incurred in line with industry practice. consequently, the 
development costs do not qualify for capitalization as intangible assets until marketing approval by a regulatory 
authority is obtained or considered highly probable. 
 
other operating expenses 
other operating expenses comprise other income and expenses relating to operating activities of a secondary 
nature to the group. other operating expenses include integration and transaction costs relating to material 
acquisitions, income and expenses relating to legal settlements and material gains and losses on the sale or 
retirement of items of property, plant and equipment. 
 
financial income and financial expenses 
financial income and financial expenses include: 
• interest income and expenses from financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost  
• interest expenses relating to lease liabilities 
• net gain or loss on securities and other financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, including 
dividends 
• fair value adjustment of contingent consideration classified as a financial liability 
• fair value adjustment of other financial liabilities 
• foreign currency gain or loss on financial assets and financial liabilities  
• other financial income and expenses 
 
interest income or expense is recognized using the effective interest method. 
 
income tax 
the parent company and danish subsidiaries are jointly taxed with the principal shareholder, lundbeckfonden 
(lundbeckfond invest a/s), and its danish subsidiaries. the current danish corporate income tax liability is 
allocated among the companies of the tax pool in proportion to their taxable income (full allocation subject to 
reimbursement in respect of tax losses). 
 
 
note 26 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 81 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies – continued 
tax for the year, which consists of the year’s current tax and the change in deferred tax, is recognized in the 
statement of profit or loss as regards the amount that can be attributed to the net profit or loss for the year, in 
other comprehensive income as regards the amount that can be attributed to items in other comprehensive 
income, and in equity as regards the amount that can be attributed to items in equity. the effect of foreign 
exchange differences on deferred tax is recognized in the statement of financial position as part of the 
movements in deferred tax. 
 
the current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at 
the end of the reporting period in the countries where the group operates and generates taxable income. 
management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a tax authority will accept an 
uncertain tax treatment. the group measures its tax balances based on either the most likely amount or the 
expected value, depending on which method provides a better prediction of the resolution of the uncertainty. 
 
current tax for the year is calculated based on the income tax rates and rules applicable at the reporting date. 
 
current tax payables and receivables, including contributions payable and receivable under the danish joint 
taxation scheme, are recognized in the balance sheet, computed as tax calculated on the taxable income for 
the year adjusted for provisional tax paid. 
 
deferred tax is recognized on all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
and their tax bases. however, deferred tax is not recognized on temporary differences arising either on initial 
recognition of goodwill or from a transaction that is not a business combination, if the temporary difference 
ascertained at the time of the initial recognition affects neither the financial result nor the taxable income. the 
tax value of the assets is calculated based on the planned use of the individual assets. 
 
deferred tax is measured on the basis of the income tax rates and tax rules in force in the respective countries 
at the balance sheet date. changes in deferred tax resulting from changed income tax rates or tax rules are 
recognized in profit or loss. 
 
deferred tax assets, including the tax value of tax loss carryforwards, are recognized in the balance sheet at 
the value at which the assets are expected to be realized, either through an offset against deferred tax liabilities 
or as net tax assets to be offset against future positive taxable income. 
 
changes in deferred tax concerning expenses for share-based payments are generally recognized in profit or 
loss. however, if the amount of the tax deduction exceeds the related cumulative expense, it indicates that the 
tax deduction relates not only to an operating expense, but also to an equity item. in such a case, the excess 
of the associated current or deferred tax is recognized directly in equity. 
 
deferred tax in respect of recaptured losses previously deducted in foreign subsidiaries is recognized on the 
basis of a specific assessment of each individual subsidiary. 
 
balances on interest deductibility limitations calculated according to the provisions of the danish corporation 
tax act are allocated between the jointly-taxed companies according to a joint taxation agreement and are 
allocated between the companies that are subject to deductibility limitation in proportion to their share of the 
total limitation. deferred tax liabilities in respect of these balances are recognized in the balance sheet, whereas 
deferred tax assets are recognized only if the criteria for recognition of deferred tax assets are met. 
 
statement of financial position 
intangible assets 
goodwill 
on initial recognition, goodwill is measured and recognized as the excess of the cost over the fair value of the 
acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.  
 
development projects 
development costs are recognized in profit or loss as they are incurred unless the conditions for capitalization 
have been met. development costs are capitalized only if the development projects are clearly defined and 
identifiable and where the technical rate of utilization of the project, the availability of adequate resources and 
a potential future market or development opportunity can be demonstrated. furthermore, such costs are 
capitalized only where the intention is to manufacture, market or use the project, when the cost can be 
measured reliably and when it is probable that the future earnings can cover production, sales and distribution 
costs, administrative expenses and development costs. 
 
after completion of the development work, development costs are amortized over the estimated useful life. the 
maximum amortization period for development projects protected by intellectual property rights is consistent 
with the remaining patent protection period of the rights concerned. ongoing development projects are tested 
for impairment at least annually or when there is indication of impairment. 
 
product rights and other intangible assets 
acquired intellectual property rights in the form of product rights, patents, licences, customer relationships and 
software are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. the cost of software 
comprises the cost of planning, labor and costs directly attributable to the project. 
note 26 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 82 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies – continued 
product rights are amortized over the economic lives of the underlying products, which in all material aspects 
follow the patent terms, which are currently between five and fifteen years. other rights are amortized over the 
period of agreement. amortization commences when the asset is ready to be brought into use. 
 
amortization is recognized in profit or loss under cost of sales and research and development costs, 
respectively.  
 
borrowing costs to finance the manufacture of intangible assets are recognized in the cost price if such 
borrowing costs relate to the production period. other borrowing costs are expensed. 
 
gains and losses on the disposal of development projects, patents and licences are measured as the difference 
between the selling price less cost to sell and the carrying amount at the time of sale. in general, amortization 
methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
 
property, plant and equipment 
property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. land 
is not depreciated. 
 
cost includes the costs of purchase and expenses directly attributable to the purchase until the asset is ready 
for use. the cost of self-constructed assets includes costs directly attributable to the construction of the asset. 
 
borrowing costs to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the cost price if 
such borrowing costs relate to the production period. other borrowing costs are expensed. 
 
property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the 
assets: 
• buildings 
 
 
 
30 years 
• installations 
 
 
 
10 years 
• plant and machinery 
 
 
3-10 years 
• other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment 
 
3-10 years 
• leasehold improvements, max. 
 
 
10 years 
 
depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reassessed annually and adjusted if appropriate. 
costs incurred that increase the recoverable amount of an asset are added to the value of the asset as an 
improvement and are depreciated over the estimated useful life of the improvement. 
 
gains or losses on the sale or retirement of items of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the 
difference between the carrying amount and the selling price less cost to sell or discontinuance costs. gains 
and losses are recognized in profit or loss; normally in a separate line item or, if considered immaterial to the 
understanding of the consolidated financial statements, in the same line item as the associated depreciation. 
 
right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the liability adjusted for 
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an 
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on 
which it is located, less any lease incentives.  
 
subsequently, the right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement 
date to the end of the lease term. depreciation is recognized in profit or loss. right-of-use assets are presented 
as part of property, plant and equipment. 
 
impairment 
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, intangible assets not yet available for use and goodwill acquired in 
a business combination are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment, or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. the annual impairment 
test is performed irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment. 
 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in use with finite useful lives are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
 
an impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. the recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. 
for the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets 
(cash-generating unit). non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for 
possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period. 
 
 
 
note 26 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 83 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies – continued 
impairment losses are reversed only if the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment calculation 
have changed. indications of impairment or reversal of impairment include the following: 
• research and development results for a product 
• changes in expected cash flows due to lower sales expectations 
• changes in technology 
• changes in assumptions about future use 
• changes in market and legal risks 
• changes in cost structure 
 
other financial assets 
equity investments that are not investments in associates are classified as other financial assets. 
 
on initial recognition, equity investments are measured at fair value. subsequently, they are measured at fair 
value at the balance sheet date, and changes to the fair value are recognized under financial income or financial 
expenses or in other comprehensive income according to an individual decision for each equity investment. 
 
inventories 
raw materials, packaging and goods for resale are measured at the latest known cost at the balance sheet 
date, which is equivalent to cost computed according to the fifo method. work in progress and finished goods 
manufactured by lundbeck are measured at cost, i.e. the cost of raw materials, consumables, direct labor and 
indirect costs of production. indirect costs of production include materials, labor, maintenance of and 
depreciation on machines, factory buildings and equipment used in the manufacturing process as well as the 
cost of factory administration and management. indirect costs of production are allocated based on the normal 
capacity of the production plant. 
 
inventories are written down to net realizable value if it is lower than the cost price. the net realizable value of 
inventories is calculated as the selling price less costs of completion and costs incurred to execute the sale. 
the net realizable value is determined having regard to marketability, obsolescence and expected selling price 
developments. 
 
receivables 
current receivables comprise trade receivables and other receivables arising in the group’s normal course of 
business. 
 
other receivables recognized in financial assets are financial assets with fixed or determinable cash flows that 
are not quoted in an active market and are not derivative financial instruments. 
 
on initial recognition, receivables are measured at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost, which usually 
corresponds to the nominal value less writedowns to counter the risk of losses. writedowns are calculated 
using the ‘full lifetime expected credit losses’ method, whereby the likelihood of non-fulfilment throughout the 
lifetime of the financial instrument is taken into consideration. a provision account is used for this purpose. 
 
securities 
on initial recognition, securities (including the bond portfolio), which are included in the group’s documented 
investment strategy for excess liquidity and recognized under current assets, are measured at fair value. 
subsequently, the securities are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. the fair value is based on 
officially quoted prices of the invested assets. both realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in 
profit or loss under financial income or financial expenses. 
 
equity 
dividends 
proposed dividends are recognized as a liability at the time of adoption of the dividend resolution at the annual 
general meeting (the time of declaration). dividends expected to be paid in respect of the year are included in 
the line item profit for the year in the statement of changes in equity. 
 
treasury shares 
acquisition and sale of treasury shares as well as dividends are recognized directly in equity under retained 
earnings. 
 
share-based payments 
share-based incentive programs in which shares are granted to employees and in which employees may opt 
to buy shares in the parent company (equity-settled programs) are measured at the equity instruments’ fair 
value at the date of grant and recognized under employee costs as and when the employees obtain the right 
to receive/buy the shares. the offsetting item is recognized directly in equity under retained earnings. 
 
share price-based incentive programs in which employees have the difference between the agreed price and 
the actual share price settled in cash (cash-settled programs) are measured at fair value at the date of grant 
and recognized under employee costs as and when the employees obtain the right to such difference 
settlement. the cash-settled programs are subsequently remeasured on each balance sheet date and upon 
final settlement, and any changes in the fair value of the programs are recognized under employee costs. the 
offsetting item is recognized under liabilities until the time of the final settlement. 
note 26 
 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 84 / 105   
 
 
 
 
26 significant accounting policies – continued 
retirement benefit obligations 
periodical payments to defined contribution plans are recognized in profit or loss at the due date, and any 
contributions payable are recognized in the balance sheet under current liabilities. 
 
the present value of the group’s liabilities relating to future pension payments under defined benefit plans is 
measured on an actuarial basis once a year on the basis of the pensionable period of employment up to the 
time of the actuarial valuation. the calculation of present value is based on assumptions of future developments 
of salary, interest, inflation, mortality and disability rates and other factors. present value is computed 
exclusively for the benefits to which the employees have earned entitlement through their employment with 
lundbeck. pension expenses, finance costs and administration fees are recognized in profit or loss under 
employee costs. actuarial gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income as they are 
calculated and cannot subsequently be recycled through profit or loss. 
 
the present value of the defined benefit plan liability is recognized less the fair value of the plan assets, and 
any net obligation is recognized in the balance sheet under non-current liabilities. any net asset is recognized 
in the balance sheet as a financial asset, taking into consideration, where relevant, the provisions of ifric 14 
the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction. 
 
provisions 
provisions mainly consist of provisions for discounts and rebates, product returns, pending lawsuits and 
restructuring. a provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount. 
 
unsettled discounts and rebates are recognized as provisions, when the time or amount is uncertain. where 
absolute amounts are known, the discounts and rebates are recognized as trade payables. 
 
return obligations imposed on the group are recognized as provisions in the balance sheet.   
 
amounts relating to pending lawsuits are recognized when the outflow is probable and the amount is measured 
as the best estimate of the costs required to settle the liabilities at the balance sheet date.  
 
in connection with restructurings in the group, provisions are made only for liabilities set out in a specific 
restructuring plan on the basis of which the parties affected can reasonably expect that the group will carry out 
the restructuring, either by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main components. 
 
 
debt 
bank debt and bond debt are recognized at the time of raising of the loan/issuing of the bonds at the fair value 
of the proceeds received less transaction costs paid. in subsequent periods, the financial liabilities are 
measured at amortized cost, which is equivalent to the capitalized value when the effective rate of interest is 
used. the difference between the proceeds and the nominal value is recognized in profit or loss under financial 
income or financial expenses over the loan period. 
 
other payables 
other payables include contingent consideration, payables to shareholders, debt to public authorities, etc. 
 
contingent consideration is recognized as part of the business combination and is recognized at fair value 
considering the passage of time and changes in the applied probability of success. the fair value is assessed 
at each reporting date and the effect of any adjustments relating to the timing of payment and the probability of 
success is recognized under financial income or financial expenses. 
 
payables to shareholders and other debts are measured at amortized cost. 
 
lease liabilities 
lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of future payments in accordance with the lease 
agreements and include the present value of future payments relating to reasonably certain extensions. interest 
on the lease liabilities is calculated using lundbeck’s incremental borrowing rate and recognized under financial 
income or financial expenses. the lease liabilities are reduced by any instalments paid to the lessor. 
 
lundbeck uses the same incremental borrowing rate for lease agreements with similar characteristics. 
 
changes to lease agreements after initial recognition are accounted for either as a modification to an existing 
agreement, a separate agreement or a partial disposal depending on the nature of the change. changes will 
result in changes to both the lease liability and the right-of-use asset. 
 
 
note 26 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 85 / 105   
 
 
 
 
notes 
1 management review of the parent company 
89 
2 employee costs 
89 
3 investments in subsidiaries 
90 
4 net financials 
90 
5 income taxes 
90 
6 distribution of profit 
91 
7 intangible assets 
91 
8 property, plant and equipment 
92 
9 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
92 
10 inventories 
93 
11 provisions 
93 
12 contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
93 
13 bank debt and bond debt 
94 
14 payables to subsidiaries 
94 
15 financial instruments 
94 
16 audit fees 
95 
17 contractual obligations 
95 
18 related parties 
95 
19 subsequent events 
95 
20 significant accounting policies 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
financial  
statements of the 
parent company 
 
contents 
statement of profit or loss 
86 
statement of financial position 
87 
statement of changes in equity 
88 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 86 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
revenue 
  
10,733 
9,464 
cost of sales 
2 
2,532 
2,175 
gross profit 
  
8,201 
7,289 
  
  
  
  
sales and distribution costs 
2 
3,110 
3,104 
administrative expenses 
2 
648 
563 
research and development costs 
2 
5,027 
2,510 
other operating expenses, net 
  
8 
20 
profit from operations (ebit) 
  
(592) 
1,092 
  
  
  
  
income from investments in subsidiaries 
3 
757 
3,217 
financial income 
4 
743 
187 
financial expenses 
4 
273 
290 
profit before tax 
  
635 
4,206 
  
  
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
5 
(80) 
114 
profit for the year 
6 
715 
4,092 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
statement of profit or loss 
1 january – 31 december 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 87 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm 
dkkm 
product rights 
7 
9,850 
8,224 
other rights 
7 
68 
77 
projects in progress 
7 
132 
90 
intangible assets 
  
10,050 
8,391 
  
  
  
  
land and buildings 
8 
1,040 
1,028 
plant and machinery 
8 
197 
212 
other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment 
8 
25 
31 
prepayments and assets under construction 
8 
295 
255 
right-of-use assets 
9 
194 
203 
property, plant and equipment 
  
1,751 
1,729 
  
  
  
  
investments in subsidiaries 
3 
10,534 
10,769 
receivables from subsidiaries 
  
4,819 
3,779 
other investments 
  
114 
58 
other receivables 
  
4 
3 
financial assets 
  
15,471 
14,609 
  
  
  
  
non-current assets 
  
27,272 
24,729 
  
  
  
  
inventories 
10 
1,303 
687 
  
  
  
  
trade receivables 
  
587 
572 
receivables from subsidiaries 
  
1,388 
6,393 
joint taxation contribution 
  
130 
169 
other receivables 
  
747 
244 
prepayments 
  
84 
69 
receivables 
  
2,936 
7,447 
  
  
  
  
cash and bank balances 
  
3,171 
2,125 
  
  
  
  
current assets 
  
7,410 
10,259 
  
  
  
  
assets 
  
34,682 
34,988 
  
 
 
  
  
2020 
2019 
  
notes 
dkkm  
dkkm  
share capital 
  
996 
996 
proposed dividends 
  
498 
816 
hedging reserve  
  
176 
- 
retained earnings 
  
12,144 
11,921 
equity 
  
13,814 
13,733 
  
  
  
  
deferred tax liabilities 
5 
137 
178 
provisions 
11 
- 
50 
bank debt and bond debt 
13 
5,397 
7,062 
lease liabilities 
9 
182 
190 
payables to subsidiaries 
14 
6,226 
2,064 
other payables 
  
20 
- 
non-current liabilities 
  
11,962 
9,544 
  
  
  
  
provisions 
11 
132 
100 
bank debt 
  
2,000 
2,000 
trade payables 
  
2,092 
1,920 
lease liabilities 
9 
13 
13 
payables to subsidiaries 
  
3,791 
7,069 
other payables 
  
878 
609 
current liabilities 
  
8,906 
11,711 
  
  
  
  
liabilities 
  
20,868 
21,255 
  
  
  
  
equity and liabilities 
  
34,682 
34,988 
  
  
  
  
 
 
statement of financial position –  
assets 
at 31 december 
 
statement of financial position –  
equity and liabilities 
at 31 december 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 88 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
share 
capital 
proposed 
dividends 
hedging 
reserve 
retained 
earnings 
equity 
  
notes 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
equity at 1 january 
  
996 
816 
- 
11,921 
13,733 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
profit for the year 
6 
- 
498 
- 
217 
715 
distributed dividends, gross 
  
- 
(816) 
- 
- 
(816) 
dividends received, treasury shares 
  
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
deferred exchange gains/losses, 
hedging 
  
- 
- 
313 
- 
313 
deferred fair value of interest rate 
swaps 
  
- 
- 
(82) 
- 
(82) 
exchange gains/losses, hedging 
(transferred to revenue) 
  
- 
- 
(5) 
- 
(5) 
capital increase through exercise of 
warrants 
  
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
buyback of treasury shares 
  
- 
- 
- 
(29) 
(29) 
incentive programs 
  
- 
- 
- 
32 
32 
tax on transactions in equity 
5 
- 
- 
(50) 
1 
(49) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
equity at 31 december 
  
996 
498 
176 
12,144 
13,814 
 
see note 13 equity in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
statement of changes in equity 
at 31 december 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 89 / 105   
 
 
 
 
1 management review of the parent company 
the following is considered significant to the understanding of the financial statements of the parent company.  
 
revenue 
of total revenue, dkk 4,806 derived from sales in north america, representing 45% of total revenue and dkk 
3,704 derived from sales in europe, representing 35% of total revenue. see note 2 revenue and segment 
information in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
financial income and expenses 
financial income and expenses are impacted by a net exchange loss of dkk 13 million relating to translation 
of receivables from and payables to subsidiaries that are considered part of the overall investment in 
subsidiaries. further, financial income and expenses are impacted by a gain of dkk 356 million relating to the 
translation of external loans and cross-currency swaps used for hedging net investments in foreign operations 
in the u.s.   
 
intangible assets 
the parent company h. lundbeck a/s has acquired all intellectual property rights from lundbeck la jolla 
research center, inc. and the intellectual property rights from prexton therapeutics s.a. relating to foliglurax 
at a total amount of dkk 3,627 million. the foliglurax product rights were subsequently impaired impacting 
research and development costs. 
 
bond issuance  
the parent company h. lundbeck a/s has issued eurobonds in an aggregate amount of eur 500 million. the 
proceeds from the bond issuance have been used to settle part of the bank debt raised to finance lundbeck’s 
acquisition of alder biopharmaceuticals, inc. (subsequently renamed lundbeck seattle biopharmaceuticals, 
inc.) in 2019. 
 
treasury shares 
see note 13 equity in the consolidated financial statements for details on developments in the holding of 
treasury shares. 
 
 
2 employee costs 
breakdown of employee costs 
 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
short-term employee benefits 
1,478 
1,330 
retirement benefits 
127 
122 
social security costs 
27 
22 
equity- and cash-settled incentive programs 
29 
29 
total 
1,661 
1,503 
  
  
  
 
  
2020 
2019 
employee costs by nature 
dkkm 
dkkm 
cost of sales 
427 
406 
sales and distribution costs 
105 
95 
administrative expenses 
396 
304 
research and development costs 
733 
698 
total 
1,661 
1,503 
  
  
  
 
registered executive management 
see notes 3 employee costs and 15 incentive programs in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
board of directors 
see note 3 employee costs in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
number of employees 
  
  
  
2020 
2019 
average number of full-time employees in the financial year 
1,738 
1,734 
number of full-time employees at 31 december 
1,709 
1,766 
  
  
  
 
incentive programs 
see note 15 incentive programs in the consolidated financial statements. 
notes 1-2 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 90 / 105   
 
 
 
 
3 investments in subsidiaries 
  
2020 
  
dkkm 
cost at 1 january 
10,799 
disposals  
(61) 
cost at 31 december 
10,738 
  
  
impairment at 1 january 
30 
impairment of investments in subsidiaries  
204 
disposals 
(30) 
impairment at 31 december 
204 
carrying amount at 31 december 
10,534 
  
  
 
income from investments in subsidiaries amounting to dkk 757 million is the net amount of dividends received, 
proceeds from liquidations of subsidiaries and impairment losses recognized related to investments in 
subsidiaries. in 2019, income from investments in subsidiaries was dividends amounting to dkk 3,217 million. 
 
see note 24 list of subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements for an overview of subsidiaries. 
 
 
4 net financials 
in 2020, financial income amounted to dkk 743 million (dkk 187 million in 2019), of which dkk 233 million 
(dkk 120 million in 2019) related to intra-group interest income, and financial expenses amounted to dkk 273 
million (dkk 290 million in 2019), of which dkk 56 million (dkk 54 million in 2019) related to intra-group 
interest expenses. 
 
 
5 income taxes 
tax on profit for the year 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
current tax, joint taxation contribution 
12 
(81) 
prior-year adjustments, current tax 
(2) 
8 
prior-year adjustments, deferred tax 
8 
(19) 
change in deferred tax for the year 
(49) 
200 
total tax for the year 
(31) 
108 
  
  
  
tax for the year is composed of: 
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
(80) 
114 
tax on transactions in equity 
49 
(6) 
total tax for the year 
(31) 
108 
  
  
  
 
deferred tax balances 
temporary differences between assets and liabilities as 
stated in the financial statements and in the tax base 
balance at 
1 january 
adjustment of 
deferred  
tax at 
beginning  
of year 
movements 
during 
the year 
balance at 
31 december 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
intangible assets 
4,171 
- 
(456) 
3,715 
property, plant and equipment 
484 
- 
(13) 
471 
inventories 
236 
- 
114 
350 
other items 
(352) 
(18) 
(11) 
(381) 
tax loss carryforwards etc. 
(3,727) 
52 
143 
(3,532) 
total temporary differences 
812 
34 
(223) 
623 
  
  
  
  
  
deferred (tax assets)/tax liabilities 
178 
8 
(49) 
137 
 
the major assumptions relating to the recognition and measurement of tax assets are described in  
note 6 income taxes in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
notes 3-5 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 91 / 105   
 
 
 
 
5 income taxes - continued 
  
2020 
2019 
movements in deferred tax  
dkkm 
dkkm 
balance at 1 january 
178 
(3) 
movements relating to profit for the year 
(41) 
180 
movements relating to transactions in equity 
- 
1 
balance at 31 december 
137 
178 
  
  
  
 
 
6 distribution of profit 
  
2020 
2019 
proposed distribution of profit for the year 
dkkm 
dkkm 
proposed dividends for the year 
498 
816 
transferred to/from distributable reserves 
217 
3,276 
total profit for the year 
715 
4,092 
  
  
  
proposed dividend per share (dkk) 
2.50 
4.10 
 
 
7 intangible assets 
  
product 
rights¹ 
other 
rights² 
projects in 
progress² 
total 
intangible 
assets 
intangible assets 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
cost at 1 january 
12,814 
1,736 
93 
14,643 
transfers 
- 
29 
(29) 
- 
additions 
3,627 
16 
68 
3,711 
disposals 
- 
(122) 
- 
(122) 
cost at 31 december 
16,441 
1,659 
132 
18,232 
  
  
  
  
  
amortization and impairment losses at 1 january 
4,590 
1,659 
3 
6,252 
transfers 
- 
3 
(3) 
- 
amortization 
594 
39 
- 
633 
impairment losses 
1,407 
- 
- 
1,407 
disposals 
- 
(110) 
- 
(110) 
amortization and impairment losses at 31 december 
6,591 
1,591 
- 
8,182 
carrying amount at 31 december 
9,850 
68 
132 
10,050 
  
  
  
  
  
1) at 31 december 2020, product rights not yet commercialized amounted to dkk 6,239 million (dkk 4,019 million in 2019). 
2) other rights and projects in progress primarily include items such as the it system sap. the amounts include directly attributable internal 
expenses. 
 
notes 5-7 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 92 / 105   
 
 
 
 
8 property, plant and equipment 
  
land and 
buildings 
plant and 
machinery 
other 
fixtures 
and fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
prepayments 
and assets  
under 
construction 
total  
property,  
plant and  
equipment 
property, plant and equipment 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
cost at 1 january 
3,078 
1,108 
545 
255 
4,986 
transfers 
83 
27 
14 
(124) 
- 
additions 
20 
8 
5 
164 
197 
disposals 
(5) 
(8) 
(33) 
- 
(46) 
cost at 31 december 
3,176 
1,135 
531 
295 
5,137 
  
  
  
  
  
  
depreciation and impairment losses at  
1 january 
2,050 
896 
514 
- 
3,460 
depreciation 
89 
44 
11 
- 
144 
impairment losses 
1 
6 
- 
- 
7 
disposals 
(4) 
(8) 
(19) 
- 
(31) 
depreciation and impairment losses at  
31 december 
2,136 
938 
506 
- 
3,580 
carrying amount at 31 december 
1,040 
197 
25 
295 
1,557 
  
  
  
  
  
  
1) including leasehold improvements. 
 
pledged assets 
no land and buildings were mortgaged at 31 december 2020. no other assets have been pledged. 
 
9 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
  
2020 
2019 
amounts recognized in profit or loss 
dkkm 
dkkm 
expense relating to short-term leases, not capitalized 
1 
2 
depreciation of right-of-use assets, land and buildings  
13 
13 
  
    
  
2020 
2019 
land and buildings 
dkkm 
dkkm 
carrying amount at 1 january 
203 
216 
carrying amount at 31 december  
194 
203 
  
  
  
  
2020 
2019 
maturity analysis of lease liabilities 
dkkm 
dkkm 
within 1 year  
13 
13 
between 1 year and 5 years  
52 
50 
after 5 years 
130 
140 
lease liabilities at 31 december 
195 
203 
  
  
  
 
 
 
notes 8-9 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 93 / 105   
 
 
 
 
10 inventories 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
raw materials and consumables 
143 
159 
work in progress 
868 
332 
finished goods and goods for resale 
292 
196 
total 
1,303 
687 
  
  
  
 
 
11 provisions 
  
2020 
  
dkkm 
provisions at 1 january 
150 
provisions charged 
122 
provisions used 
(102) 
unused provisions reversed 
(38) 
provisions at 31 december 
132 
  
  
 
the parent company has entered into agreements with individual subsidiaries, under which the parent 
company will cover expected losses and obligations concerning the restructuring programs. the provisions in 
the parent company therefore cover such losses and obligations. 
 
at 31 december 2020, provisions of dkk 132 million (dkk 150 million in 2019) related to restructuring 
programs. 
 
12 contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
pending legal proceedings 
h. lundbeck a/s is involved in a number of legal proceedings, including patent disputes, the most significant 
of which are described below. in the opinion of management, the outcome of these proceedings will not have 
a material impact on the financial position or cash flows beyond the amount already provided for in the financial 
statements, or it is too uncertain to make a reliable provision. such proceedings will, however, develop over 
time, and new proceedings may occur which could have a material impact on the financial position and/or cash 
flows.  
 
in june 2013, the company received the european commission’s decision that agreements concluded with 
four generic competitors concerning citalopram violated competition law. the decision included fining the 
company eur 93.8 million (approximately dkk 700 million). the company paid and expensed the fine in the 
third quarter of 2013. in september 2016, the company announced that the general court of the european 
union had delivered its judgment concerning the company’s appeal against the european commission’s 2013 
decision. the company’s appeal was rejected by the general court. the company has appealed the judgment 
to the european court of justice. an oral hearing was conducted by the european court of justice in january 
2019. the advocate general delivered her opinion to the european court of justice on 4 june 2020. in the 
opinion, the advocate general proposes that the european court of justice should uphold the fine of eur 
93.8 million imposed on the company. the final judgment will be delivered on 25 march 2021. so called “follow-
on claims” for reimbursement of alleged losses, resulting from alleged violation of competition law, often arise 
when decisions and fines issued by the european commission are upheld by the european court of justice. 
health authorities in the uk and the netherlands have taken formal protective steps against the company with 
the principal purpose of preventing potential claims from being time-barred under the applicable statutes of 
limitation. the company expects no further material development in these matters until after the european 
court of justice has issued its final judgment.  
 
in canada, the company is involved in three product liability class-action lawsuits relating to cipralex®/celexa® 
(two cases alleging various celexa®-induced birth defects and one case against several ssri manufacturers 
(incl. h. lundbeck a/s) alleging that ssri (celexa®/lexapro®) induces autism birth defect); three relating to 
abilify maintena® (alleging i.a. failure to warn about compulsive behavior side effects), and one relating to 
rexulti® (also alleging i.a. failure to warn about compulsive behavior side effects). the cases are in the 
preliminary stages and as such there is significant uncertainty as to how these lawsuits will be resolved. the 
company strongly disagrees with the claims raised.  
 
 
 
notes 10-12 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 94 / 105   
 
 
 
 
12 contingent assets and contingent liabilities – continued  
in 2018, the company entered into settlements with three of four generic companies involved in an australian 
federal court case, in which the company was pursuing patent infringement and damages claims over the sale 
of escitalopram products in australia. the company received aud 51.7 million (dkk 242 million) in 2018. in 
the company’s case against the last of the four generic companies, sandoz pty ltd, the federal court found 
that sandoz pty ltd had infringed the company’s escitalopram patent between 2009 and 2012 and awarded 
the company aud 26.3 million in damages. sandoz’ appeal of the decision was heard in may 2019, and the 
full federal court has in august 2020 allowed sandoz' appeal and decided that sandoz is not liable for 
damages. the company’s application for special leave to appeal the decision to the high court will be heard 
in february 2021.  
 
together with takeda, the company has instituted patent infringement proceedings against 16 generic 
companies that have applied for marketing authorization for generic versions of trintellix® in the u.s. two 
opponents have withdrawn and the company has now settled with eight opponents. the cases against the six 
remaining opponents continue. the trial with the six opponents was in late january 2021 and decision is 
currently expected within seven months after the trial. the company has strong confidence in its vortioxetine 
patents. the fda cannot grant marketing authorization to the generic companies unless they receive a 
decision in their favor. the compound patent, including patent term extensions, will expire in the u.s. on 17 
december 2026. the company has other patents relating to vortioxetine with expiry in the period until 2032.  
 
together with otsuka, the company has instituted patent infringement proceedings against several generic 
companies that have applied for marketing authorization for generic versions of rexulti® in the u.s. the 
company has strong confidence in the rexulti® patents. the fda cannot grant marketing authorization in the 
u.s. to the generic companies before the patents expire unless the generic companies receive decisions in 
their favor.  
 
joint taxation 
h. lundbeck a/s is part of a danish joint taxation scheme with lundbeckfonden (lundbeckfond invest a/s 
including subsidiaries), according to which the company has partly a joint and several liability and partly a 
secondary liability with respect to corporate income taxes, etc. for the jointly-taxed companies. in addition,  
h. lundbeck a/s has partly a joint and several liability and partly a secondary liability with respect to any 
obligations to withhold tax on interest, royalties and dividends for these companies. however, in both cases 
the secondary liability is capped at an amount equal to the share of the capital of the company directly or 
indirectly owned by the ultimate parent company. the total tax obligation under the joint taxation scheme is 
shown in the financial statements of lundbeckfond invest a/s. 
letters of intent 
the parent company has entered into agreements to cover operating losses in certain subsidiaries. 
 
as collateral for bank guarantees, the parent company has issued letters of intent to the banks in the amount 
of dkk 6 million (dkk 6 million in 2019) of behalf of subsidiaries. 
 
 
13 bank debt and bond debt 
bank debt and bond debt falling due after more than five years from the balance sheet date amounted to dkk 
3,699 million at 31 december 2020 (dkk 0 million in 2019). 
 
 
14 payables to subsidiaries 
payables to subsidiaries falling due after more than five years from the balance sheet date amounted to dkk 
6,226 million at 31 december 2020 (dkk 2,064 million in 2019). 
 
 
15 financial instruments 
foreign currency management is handled by the parent company. see note 20 financial instruments in the 
consolidated financial statements.  
 
the fair value of derivatives at year-end is disclosed in note 20 financial instruments in the consolidated 
financial statements. the fair value adjustment recognized in equity is disclosed in the statement of changes 
in equity in the financial statements of the parent company. all fair value adjustments are initially recognized 
in equity. 
 
 
 
notes 12-15 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 95 / 105   
 
 
 
 
16 audit fees 
  
2020 
2019 
  
dkkm 
dkkm 
statutory audit 
4 
3 
other opinions 
- 
- 
tax consulting 
3 
- 
other services 
1 
8 
total 
8 
11 
  
  
  
 
at the annual general meeting held on 24 march 2020, pricewaterhousecoopers statsautoriseret 
revisionspartnerselskab 
was 
elected 
as 
lundbeck’s 
external 
auditor. 
deloitte 
statsautoriseret 
revisionspartnerselskab was lundbeck’s external auditor in 2019. 
 
 
17 contractual obligations 
research and development milestones and collaborations 
the parent company has entered into a number of agreements relating to research and development. 
according to the agreements, the company is committed to pay certain milestones. at 31 december 2020, 
potential future milestone payments covering the coming ten-year period totalled up to approximately dkk 300 
million (approximately dkk 1,750 million in 2019). in addition, the parent company is part of multi-year research 
and development collaboration projects comprising minimum collaboration obligations in the order of dkk 1 
million (dkk 10 million in 2019). 
 
sales milestones 
the company is committed to pay certain commercial sales milestones. the amount depends on future sales. 
 
other purchase obligations 
the parent company has undertaken purchase obligations in the amount of dkk 93 million (dkk 155 million 
in 2019), the majority of which relates to service contracts. in addition, the parent company has undertaken 
purchase obligations relating to property, plant and equipment in the amount of dkk 82 million (dkk 83 million 
in 2019). furthermore, the parent company has entered into service agreements amounting to  
dkk 160 million (dkk 210 million in 2019). 
 
 
18 related parties 
for information on related parties exercising controlling influence on the parent company, see note 23 related 
parties in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
the parent company is included in the consolidated financial statements of lundbeckfonden. 
 
the parent company had transactions with subsidiaries during 2020. the parent company’s share of 
ownership of all subsidiaries is 100%. the parent company did not enter into any transactions with other related 
parties that were not on an arm’s length basis. 
 
 
19 subsequent events 
see note 25 subsequent events in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
notes 16-19 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 96 / 105   
 
 
 
 
20 significant accounting policies 
the financial statements of the parent company h. lundbeck a/s have been prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the danish financial statements act for class d enterprises. the financial statements are 
presented in danish kroner (dkk). all amounts have been rounded to millions, unless otherwise indicated. 
 
differences relative to the accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements 
the parent company’s accounting policies for recognition and measurement are consistent with the accounting 
policies for the consolidated financial statements with the exceptions stated below. 
 
statement of profit or loss 
income from investments in subsidiaries 
income from investments in subsidiaries includes dividends from subsidiaries, which are recognized in the 
parent company’s statement of profit or loss when the parent company’s right to receive such dividends has 
been approved. further, income from investments in subsidiaries includes proceeds from liquidation of 
subsidiaries and any impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries. 
 
exchange gains/losses 
exchange gains/losses on translation of receivables from and payables to subsidiaries that are considered part 
of the overall investment in subsidiaries are recognized in profit or loss under financial income or financial 
expenses. 
 
exchange gains/losses on that part of the bank debt in foreign currency which is used for hedging of the net 
investments in subsidiaries and which provides an effective hedging of the exchange gains/losses of the net 
investments are recognized in profit or loss under financial income or financial expenses. 
 
statement of financial position 
investments in subsidiaries 
investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost in the parent company’s financial statements. where the 
recoverable amount of the investments is lower than cost, the investments are written down to this lower value. 
in addition, cost is written down to the extent that dividends distributed exceed the accumulated earnings in 
the subsidiary since the acquisition date. 
 
other financial assets 
on initial recognition, investments are measured at cost, corresponding to fair value plus directly attributable 
costs. subsequently, they are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. any fair value adjustments on 
equity investments recognized in other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements are 
recognized under financial income or financial expenses in the parent company’s statement of profit or loss. 
statement of changes in equity 
pursuant to the danish financial statements act, entries recognized in the statement of comprehensive 
income in the consolidated financial statements are recognized directly in the statement of changes in equity 
in the parent company’s financial statements, except for entries concerning exchange gains/losses on 
translation of receivables from and payables to subsidiaries, entries providing an effective hedge against 
foreign exchange gains/losses on the net investment and entries concerning other financial assets. 
 
statement of cash flows  
as allowed under section 86(4) of the danish financial statements act, no statement of cash flows has been 
prepared as it is included in the consolidated statement of cash flows. 
 
 
note 20 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 97 / 105   
 
 
 
 
the board of directors and the registered executive management have 
today considered and approved the annual report of h. lundbeck a/s 
for the financial year 1 january to 31 december 2020. 
 
the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with international financial reporting standards as 
adopted by the eu and additional requirements of the danish financial 
statements act, and the parent financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the danish financial statements act. 
management review has been prepared in accordance with the danish 
financial statements act. 
 
in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the parent 
company’s financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s 
and the parent company’s financial position at 31 december 2020, the 
results of their operations and of the group’s cash flows for the financial 
year 1 january to 31 december 2020. 
we believe that management review includes a fair review of 
developments in the group’s and the parent company’s activities and 
finances, results for the year and the group’s and the parent company’s 
financial position in general as well as a fair description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties to which the group and the parent company are 
exposed. 
 
in our opinion, the annual report of h. lundbeck a/s for the financial 
year 1 january to 31 december 2020 identified as hlun-2020-12-
31.zip is prepared, in all material respects, in compliance with the esef 
regulation 
 
we recommend that the annual report be approved at the annual 
general meeting. 
 
copenhagen, 4 february 2021  
  
 
  
 
management 
statement 
 
 
 
 
 
registered executive management 
 
 
 
 
deborah dunsire 
president and ceo 
lars bang 
executive vice president, 
product development & 
supply 
anders götzsche 
executive vice president, 
cfo 
per johan luthman 
executive vice president, 
research & development 
jacob tolstrup 
executive vice 
president, commercial 
operations 
 
 
 
 
 
board of directors 
 
 
 
 
 
lars søren rasmussen 
chairman of the board 
lene skole-sørensen 
deputy chairman  
of the board 
henrik andersen 
jeffrey berkowitz 
lars erik holmqvist 
jeremy max levin 
rikke kruse andreasen 
employee representative 
henrik sindal jensen 
employee representative 
ludovic tranholm otterbein 
employee representative 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 98 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
report on the audit of the financial statements 
our opinion 
in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements (pages 43-84) give 
a true and fair view of the group’s financial position at 31 december 
2020 and of the results of the group’s operations and cash flows for the 
financial year 1 january to 31 december 2020 in accordance with 
international financial reporting standards as adopted by the eu and 
further requirements in the danish financial statements act. 
 
moreover, in our opinion, the parent company financial statements 
(pages 85-96) give a true and fair view of the parent company’s 
financial position at 31 december 2020 and of the results of the parent 
company’s operations for the financial year 1 january to 31 december 
2020 in accordance with the danish financial statements act. 
 
our opinion is consistent with our auditor’s long-form report to the 
audit committee and the board of directors. 
 
what we have audited 
the consolidated financial statements of h. lundbeck a/s for the 
financial year 1 january to 31 december 2020 comprise the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and statement of 
comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, 
the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated 
statement of cash flows and the notes, including summary of significant 
accounting policies. 
 
the parent company financial statements of h. lundbeck a/s for the 
financial year 1 january to 31 december 2020 comprise the statement 
of profit or loss, the statement of financial position, the statement of 
changes in equity, and the notes, including summary of significant 
accounting policies. 
 
collectively referred to as the “financial statements”. 
 
basis for opinion 
we conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on 
auditing (isas) and the additional requirements applicable in denmark. 
our responsibilities under those standards and requirements are further 
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements section of our report.   
 
we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
 
independence 
we are independent of the group in accordance with the international 
ethics standards board for accountants’ code of ethics for 
professional 
accountants 
(iesba 
code) 
and 
the 
additional 
requirements applicable in denmark. we have also fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the iesba code.   
 
to the best of our knowledge and belief, prohibited non-audit services 
referred to in article 5(1) of regulation (eu) no 537/2014 were not 
provided.  
 
appointment 
we were first appointed auditors of h. lundbeck a/s on 24 march 2020 
for the financial year 2020.  
 
key audit matters 
key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, 
were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for 
2020. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
 
 
  
 
independent 
auditor’s  
reports 
 
to the shareholders of h. lundbeck a/s 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 99 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
key audit matter 
how our audit addressed the key audit matter 
 
 
sales deductions in the u.s. 
as of 31 december 2020, management has recognized a 
provision for discounts and rebates of dkk 1,002 million (2019: 
dkk 1,040 million). 
 
the group provides rebates and discounts to customers in the 
u.s. 
that 
fall 
under 
certain 
government 
mandated 
reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant is 
medicaid. these arrangements result in deductions to gross 
sales in arriving at net revenue. the period passing between the 
sales to distributors and payment of the related rebate to the 
government bodies may be several months and requires the 
unsettled amounts to be recognized as a provision. 
 
we focused on these arrangements because they are complex 
and require significant estimation by management in establishing 
an appropriate provision for the unsettled amounts. this includes 
estimation of sales volumes subject to the rebates, estimation of 
applicable rebate rates, and estimation of the lag time described 
above. 
 
we refer to notes 1.5, 16 and 26 in the consolidated financial 
statements. 
we evaluated and tested controls related to the provision on rebates and 
discounts in the u.s., including applicable information systems and 
management’s monitoring controls.  
 
we obtained management’s calculations under the reimbursement 
arrangements and evaluated the accuracy of the calculations made by 
management. further, we assessed and tested key data inputs and 
significant assumptions and recalculated the rebate percentages. 
 
we obtained and assessed the group’s estimate of the period from sale to 
payment of rebates, and rebate percentages applied, and inquired with 
management about their estimation process. 
 
we considered the group’s historical provisions by comparing the actual 
rebate with the rebate percentage estimate used by management to 
recognize the provision, including performing a retrospective review of the 
prior period provision compared to subsequent payments to evaluate the 
accuracy of management’s estimate and to identify any potential 
management bias. 
 
we evaluated the presentation and disclosures of sales deductions in the 
u.s. in the consolidated financial statements. 
impairment of product rights 
 
as of 31 december 2020, the group has product rights of dkk 
17,632 million (2019: dkk 20,732 million).  
 
the carrying value of product rights might be impaired and the 
impairment test relies on the discounted expected future cash 
flows (value in use) which are complex to determine and require 
significant estimation by management. the estimates used for 
impairment evaluation include determination of market and sales 
potential, timing of product launches, patent expiry, profit 
margins and discount rate assumptions.  
 
we focused on this area as the amounts involved are material 
and there is a risk that the assets will be impaired if the future 
cash flows deviate negatively from the expectations.  
 
we refer to notes 1.5, 7, and 26 in the consolidated financial 
statements. 
we evaluated the appropriateness of the group’s processes for identifying 
impairment indicators of product rights and conducting impairment testing, 
where relevant.  
 
we obtained the group’s assessments of impairment indicators and 
impairment tests and evaluated management’s assumptions, including 
impact of the expiry of patents and timing of product launches as well as an 
assessment of market potential and thereby assessment of future sales and 
earnings possibilities. further, we assessed: 
• the impairment models applied. we included our valuation specialists in 
our audit of the valuation methodologies applied and the assumptions 
made; 
• the forecast of future cash flows by discussing it with management and 
key employees; and 
• the applied discount rates by including our valuation specialists to 
independently calculate the discount rates. we compared the discount 
rates used by management to our calculated rates. 
 
we evaluated the presentation and disclosures of impairment testing in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
  
 
independent 
auditor’s  
reports 
continued 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 100 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
statement on management review 
management is responsible for management review (pages 3-42 and 
pages 103-104, respectively). 
 
our opinion on the financial statements does not cover management 
review, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
 
in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read management review and, in doing so, consider 
whether management review is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.  
 
moreover, we considered whether management review includes the 
disclosures required by the danish financial statements act.  
 
based on the work we have performed, in our view, management 
review is in accordance with the consolidated financial statements and 
the parent company financial statements and has been prepared in  
 
accordance with the requirements of the danish financial statements 
act. we did not identify any material misstatement in management 
review. 
 
management’s responsibilities for the financial statements 
management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with 
international financial reporting standards as adopted by the eu and 
further requirements in the danish financial statements act and for the 
preparation of parent company financial statements that give a true and 
fair view in accordance with the danish financial statements act, and 
for such internal control as management determines is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
in preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for 
assessing the group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the group or the parent 
key audit matter - continued 
how our audit addressed the key audit matter - continued 
 
 
deferred tax asset valuation and uncertain tax positions 
as of 31 december 2020, deferred tax assets amounted to dkk 2,075 
million before netting deferred tax liabilities within legal tax entities and 
jurisdictions (2019: dkk 2,406 million) and provision for uncertain tax 
positions amounted to dkk 406 million (2019: dkk 385 million). 
 
the group operates in many territories and is, consequently, subject to 
local laws, and cross-border transfer pricing legislation which complicates 
the tax matters of the group as a whole. where the amount of tax payable 
or receivable is uncertain, a provision for uncertain tax positions is 
recognized based on management’s estimates. 
 
measurement of deferred tax assets requires significant estimation by 
management in assessing the expected future utilization of tax losses 
and tax credits.  
 
we focused on these areas as the amounts involved are material and as 
the valuation of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions is 
associated with a high degree of estimation uncertainty. 
 
we refer to notes 1.5, 6 and 26 in the consolidated financial statements. 
we evaluated the appropriateness of the group’s processes for 
assessing the recoverability of tax losses, tax credits carried forward 
and provisions for uncertain tax positions.  
 
we evaluated management’s assumptions used in (a) the 
projections of taxable profit in the foreseeable future in the 
jurisdictions with tax losses, tax credits carried forward and (b) 
provisions for uncertain tax positions. moreover, we assessed the 
planned initiatives and the release and expiry of the tax losses and 
tax credits carried forward. we included our tax specialists to 
evaluate and challenge the adequacy of management’s significant 
assumptions.  
 
we evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the deferred tax 
assets and uncertain tax positions in the consolidated financial 
statements. 
 
  
 
independent 
auditor’s  
reports 
continued 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 101 / 105   
 
 
 
 
company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do 
so. 
 
auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with isas and the additional requirements applicable in 
denmark will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected 
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements. 
 
as part of an audit in accordance with isas and the additional 
requirements applicable in denmark, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
we also:  
 
• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. the risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
• obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in 
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the group’s and the parent company’s internal 
control. 
• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
• conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s and the 
parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern. if we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. however, future events 
or conditions may cause the group or the parent company to cease 
to continue as a going concern. 
• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
• obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial 
information of the entities or business activities within the group to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. we are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. we remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 
 
we communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
we also provide those charged with governance with a statement that 
we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
 
from the matters communicated with those charged with governance, 
we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit 
of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit matters. we describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh 
the public interest benefits of such communication. 
 
 
 
  
 
independent 
auditor’s  
reports 
continued 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 102 / 105   
 
 
 
 
report on compliance with the esef regulation  
as part of our audit of the financial statements we performed 
procedures to express an opinion on whether the annual report of h. 
lundbeck a/s for the financial year 1 january to 31 december 2020 
with the file name hlun-2020-12-31.zip is prepared, in all material 
respects, in compliance with the commission delegated regulation 
(eu) 2019/815 on the european single electronic format (esef 
regulation) which includes requirements related to the preparation of 
the annual report in xhtml format and ixbrl tagging of the 
consolidated financial statements.  
 
management is responsible for preparing an annual report that 
complies with the esef regulation. this responsibility includes:  
 
• the preparing of the annual report in xhtml format;  
• the selection and application of appropriate ixbrl tags, including 
extensions to the esef taxonomy and the anchoring thereof to 
elements in the taxonomy, for all financial information required to be 
tagged using judgment where necessary;  
• ensuring consistency between ixbrl tagged data and the 
consolidated financial statements presented in human-readable 
format; and  
• for such internal control as management determines necessary to 
enable the preparation of an annual report that is compliant with the 
esef regulation.  
 
 
hellerup, 4 february 2021 
 
pricewaterhousecoopers 
statsautoriseret revisionspartnerselskab 
cvr no 3377 1231 
 
 
 
 
our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the 
annual report is prepared, in all material respects, in compliance with 
the esef regulation based on the evidence we have obtained, and to 
issue a report that includes our opinion. the nature, timing and extent 
of procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the 
assessment of the risks of material departures from the requirements 
set out in the esef regulation, whether due to fraud or error. the 
procedures include:  
 
• testing whether the annual report is prepared in xhtml format;  
• obtaining an understanding of the company’s ixbrl tagging process 
and of internal control over the tagging process;  
• evaluating the completeness of the ixbrl tagging of the consolidated 
financial statements;  
• evaluating the appropriateness of the company’s use of ixbrl 
elements selected from the esef taxonomy and the creation of 
extension elements where no suitable element in the esef taxonomy 
has been identified; 
• evaluating the use of anchoring of extension elements to elements in 
the esef taxonomy; and  
• reconciling the ixbrl tagged data with the audited consolidated 
financial statements.  
 
in our opinion, the annual report of h. lundbeck a/s for the financial 
year 1 january to 31 december 2020 with the file name hlun-2020-
12-31.zip is prepared, in all material respects, in compliance with the 
esef regulation.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
independent 
auditor’s  
reports 
continued 
lars baungaard 
torben jensen 
state authorized public accountant 
state authorized public accountant 
mne23331 
mne18651 
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 103 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
reported 
result 
amortization 
of product 
rights 
impairment 
and inventory 
valuation 
major 
restructuring 
acquisition 
and 
integration 
costs 
legal fees 
and 
settlements 
divestments/
sales 
milestones 
core result 
core results 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
1 january - 31 december 2020 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
revenue 
17,672 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
17,672 
cost of sales 
4,166 
(1,548) 
(47) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,571 
gross profit 
13,506 
1,548 
47 
- 
- 
- 
- 
15,101 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
sales and distribution costs 
5,946 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5,946 
administrative expenses 
966 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
966 
research and development costs 
4,545 
- 
(792) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3,753 
other operating expenses, net 
59 
- 
- 
- 
(59) 
- 
- 
- 
profit from operations (ebit) 
1,990 
1,548 
839 
- 
59 
- 
- 
4,436 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
net financials, expenses 
84 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
84 
profit before tax 
1,906 
1,548 
839 
- 
59 
- 
- 
4,352 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
325 
244 
11 
- 
14 
- 
- 
594 
profit for the year 
1,581 
1,304 
828 
- 
45 
- 
- 
3,758 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk) 
7.95 
6.56 
4.17 
- 
0.23 
- 
- 
18.91 
 
 
 
  
 
core  
reconciliation 
part of management review 
 
as a general rule, lundbeck adjusts for amortization of 
product rights and for each non-recurring item that 
management deems exceptional and which accumulates 
or is expected to accumulate to an amount exceeding a 
dkk 100 million threshold. lundbeck’s core reporting is a 
non-ifrs performance measurement. lundbeck’s core 
results, including core operating income (core ebit) and 
core eps, exclude: 
 
amortization of product rights 
 
impairment of intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment as well as inventory valuation 
adjustment 
 
major restructuring costs 
 
acquisition and integration costs, including: 
• accounting adjustments relating to the consolidation of 
material acquisitions and disposals of associates, 
products and businesses 
• costs associated with the integration of newly acquired 
companies 
• retention costs 
• transaction costs 
• legal fees and settlements, including: 
• legal costs (external), charges (net of insurance 
recoveries) and expenses relating to settlement of 
litigations, 
government 
investigations 
and 
other 
disputes 
• income from settlement of litigations and other disputes  
 
 
 
lundbeck 
annual report 2020 
    contents 
 104 / 105   
 
 
 
 
 
 
divestments/milestones, including: 
• income/expenses from discontinued operations  
• gains/losses on divestments of assets 
• received or expensed upfront sales and development 
milestones 
 
the adjusted core result is taxed at the underlying 
corporate tax rate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
reported 
result 
amortization 
of product 
rights 
impairment 
and inventory 
valuation 
major 
restructuring 
acquisition 
and 
integration 
costs 
legal fees 
and 
settlements 
divestments/
sales 
milestones 
core result 
core results 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
dkkm 
1 january - 31 december 2019 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
revenue 
17,036 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
17,036 
cost of sales 
3,840 
(1,309) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,531 
gross profit 
13,196 
1,309 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14,505 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
sales and distribution costs 
5,514 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5,514 
administrative expenses 
899 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
899 
research and development costs 
3,116 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3,116 
other operating expenses, net 
514 
- 
- 
- 
(514) 
- 
- 
- 
profit from operations (ebit) 
3,153 
1,309 
- 
- 
514 
- 
- 
4,976 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
net financials, expenses 
127 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
127 
profit before tax 
3,026 
1,309 
- 
- 
514 
- 
- 
4,849 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
tax on profit for the year 
713 
182 
- 
- 
87 
- 
- 
982 
profit for the year 
2,313 
1,127 
- 
- 
427 
- 
- 
3,867 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
earnings per share, basic (eps) (dkk) 
11.64 
5.67 
- 
- 
2.15 
- 
- 
19.46 
 
  
 
core  
reconciliation 
continued 
 
 
h. lundbeck a/s 
ottiliavej 9 
2500 valby 
denmark 
corporate communication 
tel. +45 36 30 13 11 
information@lundbeck.com 
www.lundbeck.com 
cvr number 56759913 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
