a n n u a l  r e p o r t  
r o y a l  g r e e n l a n d  a / s
january 1st 2020 - december 31st 2020
cvr-nr. 13645183
the annual report has been prepared and 
approved by the ordinary 
annual general meeting on may 20th 2021
peter schriver
dirigent
annual report 
royal greenland a/s 
2020 
january 1st - december 31st 
4
royal greenland a/s - 2020
5
annual report
the pictures in the annual report 
mainly derive from  
royal greenland’s internal archive 
report 
statement by the management on the annual report  - 6
auditors' report - 6
financial highlights and key ratios for the group - 9
royal greenland is finding new paths in the  
toughest year in the company's recent history - 10
financial statements - 12
markets and sales prices suffer  
the consequences of covid-19 - 14
new products and innovation - 19
keeping fishing and production activities as close  
to normal levels as possible, despite the pandemic - 22
food safety - 30
risks - 35
sustainability – the natural choice - 37
consolidated and annual accounts
income statement january 1st 2020  – december 31st 2020 - 65
balance sheet december 31s - 66
statement of changes in equity - 68
consolidated cash flow statement   
january 1st 2020  – december 31st 2020 - 69
notes to the financial statements - 70
accounting policies - 70
supervisory and executive board - 88
corporate governance - 89
company details - 90
group chart - 91
production units - 92
royal greenland's fleet - 101
the group's
value chain
we fish in large areas of the 
north atlantic and in the arctic, 
with our own fleet and in 
collaboration with independent 
fishermen.
at our factories and landing 
facilities, local fishermen and 
our own fleet land their daily 
catches of fish and shellfish.  
the raw materials are  
processed and packed.
the supply of high-quality 
products is the core of our 
business. we take responsibility 
for our products, from sea to 
table, and hold certifications in 
accordance with  
international standards.
we have a well-consolidated 
sales and distribution network 
to consign products from 
various locations in greenland,  
atlantic canada, denmark 
and germany to customers 
throughout the world.
our products are used in many 
different cultures, with various 
flavour preferences, and end 
up as healthy, tasty meals in 
homes, canteens and restau-
rants all over the world.
fishery
production
quality
sales
in the kitchen
the independent auditor’s audit report
to the shareholders of royal greenland a/s
conclusion 
we have audited the consolidated financial statements and annual 
accounts for royal greenland a/s for the financial year from january 1st 
- december 31st 2020, which comprise the accounting policies, income 
statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and notes for 
both the group and the company, in addition to the cash flow statement 
for the group. the consolidated financial statements and the annual 
accounts have been prepared in accordance with the danish financial 
statements act.
in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the annual ac-
counts give a true and fair view of the group's and the company's assets, 
liabilities and financial position at december 31st 2020 and of the results 
of the group's and the company's operations and the group's cash flows 
for the financial year from january 1st - december 31st 2020, in accord-
ance with the danish financial statements act. 
basis for the conclusion 
we conducted our audit in accordance with international auditing 
standards and the additional requirements applicable in greenland. our 
responsibility under these standards and requirements is described in 
more detail in the section entitled "auditor’s responsibility for the audit 
of the consolidated financial statements and the financial statements" 
(hereinafter referred to as "the financial statements"). we believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
independence 
we are independent of the group in accordance with the international 
code of ethics for professional accountants (iesba code) and the addi-
tional requirements applicable in greenland, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these regulations and 
requirements.  
the management's responsibility for the financial statements 
the management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements and annual accounts that gives a true and fair view 
in accordance with the danish financial statements act. furthermore, the 
management is responsible for any internal controls it deems necessary 
in the preparation of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
in preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for 
assessing the group's and the company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern; for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to a going concern; 
and for using the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
financial statements unless management either intends to liquidate the 
group or company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so. 
auditor's responsibility for the audit of the financial statements 
our aim are to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an audit report with an opinion. 
reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with international standards on 
auditing and the additional requirements applicable in greenland will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial 
statements.  
as part of an audit conducted in accordance with international standards 
on auditing and the additional requirements applicable in greenland, we 
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism 
during the audit. we also: 
-  identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. the 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
-  obtain an understanding of the internal control relevant to the audit in 
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circum-
stances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
-  evaluate the appropriateness of the auditing policies applied by the 
management, as well as the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.
-  conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements, and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the group and company’s ability to continue as a going concern. if we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw at-
tention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
our opinion is based on the audit evidence obtained up until the date 
of our auditor's report. however, future events or conditions may mean 
that the group and the company can no longer continue as a going 
concern. 
-  evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial 
statements, including the notes, as well as whether the financial state-
ments represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that gives a true and fair view. 
-  we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for the 
financial information for the companies or business operations in the 
group to be able to form an opinion about the group financial state-
ments. we are responsible for directing, supervising and conducting the 
group audit. we are solely responsible for our audit opinion. 
we communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
statement concerning the management's review 
the management is responsible for the management's review. 
our opinion concerning the financial statements does not include the 
management's review, and we do not express any form of opinion or 
assurance about the management's review. 
in connection with our audit of the financial statements, it is our respon-
sibility to read the management's review and in this context to consider 
whether the management's review is substantially inconsistent with 
the financial statements or the information obtained from the audit, or 
otherwise appears to contain material misstatements.
it is also our responsibility to consider whether the management's review 
includes the information required in accordance with the danish financial 
statements act. 
based on the work we have conducted, we conclude that the man-
agement's review is in accordance with the financial statements and 
has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the danish 
financial statements act. we did not find any material misstatements in 
the management's review.
nuuk, april 14th 2021
ey grønland
godkendt revisionsanpartsselskab 
cvr-nr: 33 94 61 71
claus hammer-pedersen 
state-authorised public accountant - mne21334
michael christiansen 
state-authorised public accountant - mne34515
mikael thinghuus
ceo 
nils duus kinnerup 
cfo
bruno olesen 
group sales director 
lars nielsen
group production director
niels harald de coninck-smith
chairman
jan h. lynge-pedersen 
deputy chairman
pernille fabricius 
niels smedegaard 
tina lynge schmidt 
kristine winberg 
malik hegelund olsen 
elected by the employees
niels ole møller  
elected by the employees
mika heilmann  
elected by the employees
royal greenland a/s - 2020
7
annual report
6
statement by the management  
on the annual report  
the supervisory board and executive board have today considered and 
adopted the annual report for royal greenland a/s for the financial 
year from january 1st 2019 to december 31st 2020.
the annual report is presented in accordance with the danish 
financial statements act. 
in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the annual 
report give a true and fair view of the group's and the company's 
assets, liabilities and financial position on december 31st 2020 and of 
the results of the group's and the company's activities and the group's 
cash flow for the financial year from january 1st to december 31st 2020.
it is also our opinion that the management’s review provides a true 
and fair review of the development in the group's and the company's 
activities and financial affairs, the profit or loss for the year, and the 
group's and the company's financial position.
we recommend the annual report for adoption by the annual general 
meeting.
nuuk, april 14th 2021
supervisory board
executive board 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
9
profit/loss
balance sheet
ratios
number of employees
%
31.12.20
31.12.19
31.12.18
31.12.17
31.12.16
ebit-margin
(0,3)
8,2
5,7
5,2
4,5
ebt-margin
(1,2)
7,6
5,1
4,5
4,2
roic including goodwill
(0,9)
11,1
9,1
9,1
8,2
return on equity (roe)
(3,4)
19,6
12,2
13,5
11,2
equity ratio
29,8
30,7
32,3
32,2
31,4
net interest-bearing debt / ebitda
16,0
3,7
3,5
2,9
3,0
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
greenland
1.452
1.432
1.487
1.363
1.401
denmark
165
199
205
198
197
other countries
613
569
536
972
1.171
total
2.230
2.200
2.228
2.533
2.769
key figures - dkk mill.
31.12.20
31.12.19
31.12.18
31.12.17
31.12.16
fixed assets
2.732
2.679
1.745
1.623
1.587
net working capital
1.625
1.710
1.597
1.424
1.518
equity
1.780
1.888
1.601
1.515
1.486
royal greenland’s shareholders’ share  
of equity
1.584
1.715
1.467
1.396
1.383
net interest-bearing debt
2.433
2.195
1.521
1.328
1.347
balance sheet total
5.430
5.733
4.614
4.358
4.552
investments in property, plant and 
equipment
311
991
222
314
355
financial highlights  
and key ratios
since the 2015/16 financial year was a 15-month period, the key figures are compared with the 2016 
calendar year. these key figures, and other references in the report to financial information for the 
2016 calendar year, are unaudited, but are prepared on the basis of internal financial reporting.
annual report
8
key figures - dkk mill.
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
net revenue
4.849
5.327
5.169
5.613
5.589
profit from primary operations,  
including associated companies 
(15)
437
292
290
251
net financials
(44)
(33)
(29)
(35)
(16)
net profit before tax
(59)
404
263
255
235
net profit for the year
(57)
311
175
187
152
royal greenland’s shareholders’ share  
of the profit for the year
(92)
267
148
158
125
royal greenland a/s - 2020
11
annual report
10
after a number of years with increased earnings, royal 
greenland's result from primary operations before tax 
is a loss of dkk (44) million. a further loss amounting 
to dkk (15) million concerns the replacement of a 
pelagic trawler, bringing the total loss to dkk (59) 
million.
net revenue fell by dkk 478 million, or 9%. sales 
prices for the main species, prawn, greenland halibut 
and cod, give an income loss of dkk (372) million.
the focus was on staying strong enough to re-es-
tablish growth and earnings on the other side of the 
pandemic. early in the year it was already clear that 
covid-19 would have an extremely negative impact 
on earnings. nonetheless, royal greenland decided to 
maintain the activity at approximately the same level 
as planned. 
this was based on the simple, but decisive, fact that in 
supply terms royal greenland operates in geograph-
ical areas where the company's activities dominate 
employment and economic activity. besides potential 
permanent damage to our access to resources, a dras-
tic reduction of fisheries and production would have 
entailed significant socioeconomic problems for local 
communities in both greenland and canada.
despite the negative performance, our financial re-
serves were not challenged. the extra credit facilities 
totalling dkk 700 million that were negotiated early in 
the year were thus not required. 
with two lockdown waves in europe and japan, and 
highly restricted market access to the important chi-
nese market in the second half of the year, 2020 was 
an extremely challenging year. 
in china, more stringent import procedures, and 
china's zero-tolerance policy towards covid-19, also 
made consumers less inclined to buy imported food 
products, in particular fish and shellfish, but also led 
to closure of ports and cold stores. for the time being, 
there is an actual ban on imports of frozen products to 
china. since normally 20% of our revenue is from the 
chinese market, this is naturally a major setback.
the core north atlantic activities are the foundation 
for our business, accounting for 76% of revenue, 
compared to only 41% seven years ago. 
despite the pandemic, a number of offensive meas-
ures were taken during the year. in sales terms, our 
e-commerce activities were strengthened, particularly 
in japan and china. in the chinese market, the joint 
royal greenland is finding 
new paths in the toughest year 
in the company's recent history 
covid-19 and the related restrictions and lockdowns severely affected 
markets and sales channels, pushing down sales prices. royal greenland 
moved considerable sales volumes from traditionally lucrative markets 
to areas exposed to far more intense competition. faithful to royal 
greenland’s dna and ownership we chose to maintain fishery and 
production at more or less the same level, thus acting as buffer towards 
the markets in order not to create substantial socio-economic problems in 
our many local communities.
despite our considerable efforts, we were unable to offset the financial 
impact of an unprecedented loss of revenue. nonetheless, we take an 
optimistic view of the future outlook.
 
41% 
62% 
69% 
68% 
75% 
77% 
76%
 
59% 
38% 
31% 
32% 
25% 
23% 
24%
 
2014 
2015 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
breakdown of turnover by  
business areas
     north atlantic champion        supporting
venture with beiyang jiamei is beginning to take 
shape. beiyang jiamei operates the largest fish and 
shellfish e-commerce brand in china. 
it was also possible to establish sales and distribution 
of snow crab within retail and foodservice in the usa, 
where royal greenland has traditionally sold to indus-
trial customers. going forward, there will generally be 
a stronger focus on north america.
concurrently, the joint venture in chile is firming up 
and will open up new product and market opportuni-
ties.
a new joint venture in newfoundland, canada, was 
established with the canadian company clearwater 
seafood for the operation of a prawn and fish process-
ing plant in st. anthony, to replace a facility that burnt 
down in nearby black duck cove.
on the investment front, the planned trawler 
investments were maintained. the m/tr nataarnaq 
prawn trawler is expected to be delivered at the end 
of 2021, and most recently, a new fishing trawler to 
replace the m/tr tuugalik was ordered for delivery in 
2022. the new trawlers that were delivered in 2019 
are performing very well and achieving the targeted 
improvements in efficiency and product quality.
in the autumn of 2020, the pelagic trawler tasiilaq 
was replaced by a larger trawler with greater fish 
and freezer capacity. this has significantly improved 
conditions to develop pelagic fishing in greenlandic 
waters, and so far this has already had a positive 
impact in 2021.
the new processing plant in nuussuaq, near uperna-
vik, under the arctic fish joint venture, has been com-
pleted. the joint venture also includes the processing 
plant in nutaarmiut, so that in future it will comprise 
three settlements in northern greenland, which are 
kullorsuaq, nuussuaq and nutaarmiut.
 royal greenland's 
mission is:
”we sustainably 
maximise the value 
of the north 
atlantic marine 
resources, for the 
benefit of our 
owner and the local 
communities in 
which we operate.”
annual report
13
12
rests amounts to dkk (92) million. minority interests in 
ice trawl greenland, pelagic greenland, gaia fish, arctic 
fish and inughuit seafood amount to dkk (36) million. 
royal greenland maintained working capital at an 
unchanged level, despite the sales-related challenges. 
stocks actually fell by dkk 250 million, which was 
offset by a slightly higher debtor portfolio and a lower 
creditor portfolio.
interest-bearing debt increased by dkk 238 million as 
a consequence of investments, including new trawlers 
and the establishment of joint ventures. interest-bear-
ing debt closed the year at dkk 2.4 billion.
debt as a ratio of ebitda amounts to 16. the high 
gearing naturally reflects the low earnings in 2020 as 
a consequence of the pandemic, but also a high in-
vestment level in recent years. the target is gearing of 
2-2.5, which is also reflected in the strategic financial 
projection. available liquidity amounts to dkk 1.4 bil-
lion. despite the pandemic, there are sound financial 
reserves, and as the markets normalise, operations 
will be consolidated and debt will be reduced. 
cash flows from operating activities amount to dkk 45 
million, and to dkk (193) million after investment ac-
tivities. total cash flows amount to dkk (137) million 
after financing. in 2020, no dividend was paid to the 
government of greenland, and only a small amount to 
the associated companies.
equity capital amounts to dkk 1,584 million, while the 
equity ratio is 30%. 
in accordance with the dividend policy agreed with 
the owner (50% of the profit for the year after tax), no 
dividend will be paid. it has been decided to distribute 
dkk 60 million, however, as a consequence of no 
dividend being paid for the 2019 financial year.
no events have occurred after the close of the finan-
cial year that affect the result or the balance sheet 
significantly.
outlook 
as the markets gradually normalise, the outlook for 
2021 is a very positive sales performance for our wild-
caught, high-quality products.
the focus is on re-establishing the core activities' sales 
and earnings levels, but also on getting back on track 
with our strategic ambition to maximise the value of 
existing resources, and to achieve growth from supple-
mentary core activities. 
it is expected that 2021 will reflect the markets' 
gradual normalisation during the year, as vaccination 
programmes are rolled out and countries begin to 
open their borders again. we still expect the first half 
of 2021 to be severely affected by the pandemic, and 
that there will be no significant normalisation until 
the third and fourth quarters. as the predominant 
share of royal greenland's earnings is achieved in the 
second half-year, and not least in the fourth quarter, 
with christmas and new year in the western world 
and sales up to chinese lunar new year, a gradual 
normalisation towards the summer will be particularly 
important for us.
the result from primary operations before tax will not 
be back at the 2019 level, but we do expect a profit 
above dkk 100 million. the general course of the 
global economy, including the market consequences 
of covid-19 and brexit, still constitute very significant 
uncertainties, however. 
concerning brexit, contrary to expectations the current 
agreement means that prawns from greenland are 
subject to a customs tariff of 20%, while for cod the 
tariff is 6%. assessed on the basis of the dialogue 
preceding brexit, our expectation is that this is incor-
rect, since greenland was promised a one-year exten-
sion of the exemption from customs tariffs. intensive 
political efforts are underway for this agreement to be 
changed. nonetheless, the more stringent documen-
tation and import procedures are here to stay. royal 
greenland has built up stocks in the uk as a buffer 
during a transition period. to some extent, royal 
greenland can also sell tariff-free canadian cooked & 
peeled prawns in the uk.
as a consequence of covid-19, the interest-bearing 
debt will be at the same level in 2021.
a number of measures to protect results and liquidity 
took place during the year, such as an employment 
freeze, a pay freeze, strongly reduced travel activity, a 
reduction of spending on marketing and consultants, 
and, where possible, investment restraint.
shell-on prawns continue to deliver strong earnings, 
but are affected by the pandemic's impact on the 
chinese and scandinavian markets. on the other hand, 
the russian market performed positively. the market 
performance generally reduced sales prices by an 
average of 14% during the year.
cooked & peeled prawns is the category that was 
most affected in 2020. even before the pandemic, 
the market for cooked & peeled prawns was affected 
by declining prices as a consequence of a greater 
supply, but covid-19, and the two lockdowns in 
europe, exacerbated this trend. this was amplified by 
the uncertainty concerning brexit. the market was 
very uncertain and nervous, which also reduced sales 
prices by an average of 17% during the year. prices 
for large prawns fell even more, and these were quite 
exceptionally priced at almost the same level as the 
small and medium-sized prawns.
as the world's largest company for greenland halibut, 
and with 90% of sales going to asia, this product catego-
ry was highly exposed to the pandemic's impact on the 
asian markets. the main markets are china, japan and 
taiwan. sales fell by 10%, and together with lower sales 
prices, a weaker usd underscored the decline in earnings.
recent years' upgrading of the processing plants 
in northern greenland (uummannaq, aappilattoq, 
upernavik kujalleq and nuussuaq) has entailed higher 
costs, but on the other hand, these investments, 
together with the establishment of joint ventures with 
fishermen and employees, have strengthened royal 
greenland's position. this is necessary in view of the 
intense competition for the fish resources. 
based on quin-sea fisheries and a&l seafoods, snow 
crab performed well in 2020. as a consequence of 
covid-19, the start of the season was deferred for the 
month it took for the required personnel safety meas-
ures to be installed at the processing facilities and on 
the ships. the impact of the pandemic on the markets 
in the usa and japan severely affected sales. the sea-
son proceeded better than feared, however, due to the 
establishment of sales to the retail and foodservice 
segments in the usa. royal greenland also produces 
crab in greenland, norway and quebec (canada).
north atlantic cod is still a loss-making product for 
royal greenland, and the situation is further exac-
erbated by declining market prices. the land-based 
activities are a major challenge. there is constant 
focus on increasing the proportion of nutaaq cod from 
manitsoq, in order to deliver a top-range product at 
an attractive fixed price. the proportion of nutaaq cod 
increased from 12% in 2019 to 23% in 2020. 
lumpfish roe achieved positive earnings once again in 
2020, with france as the most important market.
as in 2019, the pelagic season was disappointing. 
royal greenland's activities were also affected by 
the replacement of ships prior to the season's start. 
in addition, there was no allocation of the financially 
attractive capelin quota.
earnings for the flatfish range from the business part-
ner a. espersen, which took over royal greenland's 
polish facility in 2017, were at break-even level. 
for the other non-north atlantic product groups, 
smoked products and the zip-lock convenience range 
continued to return losses.
the result for the year after deduction of minority inte-
royal greenland a/s - 2020
a number of 
measures to 
protect results 
and liquidity took 
place during the 
year, such as 
an employment 
freeze, a pay 
freeze and strongly 
reduced travel 
activity
financial statements
the result before tax of dkk (59) million is not satisfactory, but a consider-
able improvement is expected in 2021, as the markets gradually normalise. 
strongly declining prices are the main reason for our poor result. in terms of 
total assets, it was possible to maintain working capital unchanged in 2020.  
100
90
80
70
60
2019  q1    q2    q3  2020  q1    q2    q3  2021
development in sales prices for main species  
per quarter, 2019 to 2021
      cooked & peeled prawns        greenland halibut     
      shell on prawns
 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
 
 
 
 
              404
 
235 
255 
263 
 
 
 
 
 
263
 
 
 
 
 
-44
 
 
 
 
 
         -59
 
5.589 
5.613 
5.169 
5.327 
4.849
development in revenue and results
      net revenue (dkk million)
        net profit before tax (dkk million)
        profit from primary operations (dkk million) 
development in balance sheet and equity
      total assets (dkk million)           equity (dkk million)
        equity ratio (%)
6.000
5.000
4.000
3.000
2.000
1.000
0
 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
35%
33%
31%
29%
27%
25%
23%
development in interest-bearing debt and net 
working capital
      interest-bearing debt (dkk million)
        net working capital (dkk million)
        gearing
2.500
2.000
1.500
1.000
500
0
 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
16
4
3
2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
-4
-5
-6
16
3,7
3,5
2,9
3,0
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
15
14
in 2020, the market took a very different course to 
the assumptions at the start of the year. at that time, 
most markets were flourishing, with every expectation 
of staying on the positive course built up over many 
years. covid-19 meant that most of the economies 
in the world were locked down, in order to stop the 
infection from spreading.
for royal greenland, this first and foremost reduced 
foodservice sales significantly, while retail sales land-
ed slightly below last years level. there were also ma-
jor challenges in the chinese market, which resulted in 
significantly lower sales to the industry segment.
sales to the foodservice channel in 2020 only reached 
79% of sales in 2019, while sales to the industry 
segment fell by 16%.
sales prices were also under strong downward pres-
sure, since foodservice and industry products now had 
to be sold in the retail market.
prices for the main species, greenland halibut, 
prawn and cod, all dived, while snow crab, which is 
particularly important for royal greenland's canadian 
activities, achieved a small increase, based on a shift 
from industry to retail and foodservice sales.
the sales strategy during the covid-19 crisis has been 
to maintain sales levels which match the catches 
of trawlers and fishermen. this was achieved to a 
satisfactory extent, so that stocks were kept under 
control. lower priority was given to recent years' 
strong focus on increasing sales to the asian markets 
and the foodservice sector, in favour of a dedicated 
focus on available sales channels such as retail and 
e-commerce.
 
asia is still the largest market, together with central 
europe, but the ratio has declined somewhat, to 30% 
of revenue. the north american market is growing, on 
the other hand, to a great extent buoyed up by snow 
crab. revenue shares for central europe and scandina-
via are stable.
 
asia  
sales to asia amount to dkk 1.5 billion, which is 17% 
lower than for 2019. measured by revenue share, 
however, this still represents growth by 11% points 
over the last seven years. 
the downturn in 2020 is mainly due to actual price 
reductions, since the sales volume measured in tonnes 
was at the 2019 level.
in china, volumes achieved in the first ten months 
exceeded expectations, while the close of the year 
was very strongly affected by the restrictions imposed 
by the authorities to avoid the spread of covid-19 in-
fection. for shell-on prawns in particular, the situation 
was serious, as there were several covid-19 outbreaks 
in northeastern china, which is the main market 
for shell-on prawns in china. ports, cold stores and 
local markets were either closed or subject to limited 
access, with the consequence that importers found it 
difficult to sell their products, and were reluctant to 
place new orders up to chinese new year.
markets and sales prices suffer 
the consequences of covid-19
historical distribution af revenue by regions
     asia          europe        scandinavia        
     north america        other
 
20% 
23% 
26% 
27% 
30% 
34% 
31%
 
60% 
55% 
47% 
46% 
37% 
31% 
30%
 
 
 
20% 
21% 
24% 
23% 
23%
 
19% 
21% 
 
 
 
 
 
6% 
5% 
8% 
 10% 
14%
 2013/14 2014/15 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
2%
2%
net revenue - december ytd 2020
vs. 2019 (indeks 100)
      retail         food service         industri
 
93 
79 
84
 
 
2020 - 12 ytd
fierce competition on japanese 
e-commerce platforms
2020 was a year in which royal greenland japan 
ramped up from a minor e-commerce operation 
on the rakuten online platform to also opening 
up for sale on amazon and yahoo. operating 
online sales is a very special discipline and also a 
fiercely competitive market. 
for the most part, online sales in japan are 
driven by campaigns and time-limited offers. the 
consumer is relentless: coupon sales, 2-for-1 and 
here-and-now offers cause consumers to switch 
their loyalty from one supplier to another, in just 
a few clicks on a mobile or ipad. 
another vital factor is delivery time and costs; or 
what is also known as ‘last-mile performance’. 
the consumer prefers a supplier who – at the 
lowest possible cost – can deliver where and 
when 
required. 
warehouse 
management, 
logistics and transport areas are therefore of 
crucial importance to e-commerce operations in 
japan. 
based on experience from online sales on the 
rakuten platform over a couple of years, in 2020 
royal greenland japan ramped up its sales by 
including yahoo and amazon. snow crab is the 
best-selling species on all three platforms and 
most of the sales happens at the end of the year. 
in several instances, the authorities suspected 
imported fish and shellfish to be carriers of covid-19 
infection, which eroded chinese consumers' confi-
dence in these products.
based on previous experience, royal greenland 
expects the chinese market to normalise quite quickly 
after the pandemic is brought under control and the 
restrictions can be lifted.
the japanese market was also affected by several 
lockdowns. royal greenland traditionally sells a large 
share of its products to sushi restaurants, and saw a 
sales decline of 9%. yet it was possible to increase 
sales to the retail segment, and speed up the e-com-
merce initiative.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
17
16
central europe 
revenue from the central european markets totalled 
dkk 1.4 billion. sales fell by 14%, despite reaching the 
same percentage share as in 2019. 
in line with our strategy, there were major changes in 
the revenue breakdown, with north atlantic prod-
ucts increasing from 57% to 63% of revenue. this 
development was due to higher prawn sales in the uk, 
germany and russia, increased sales of filleted green-
land halibut products in germany and france, and an 
increase in cod sales to southern europe. on the other 
hand, sales of retail-packed fish of non-north atlantic 
origin were being phased out.
this shift was achieved in a period when the european 
foodservice segment was closed down for large parts 
of the year. royal greenland had the advantage of a 
network of sales offices close to the customers in the 
individual markets, making it well-placed to tackle the 
local challenges on an optimum basis.
as in other regions, sales prices were under pressure. 
it was positive to note, however, that prices rose again 
for a period during the summer, when many of the 
restrictions were lifted. this underpins the expectation 
royal greenland's products are sold to three main 
market segments: retail, i.e. supermarkets; industry, 
i.e. other producers that further process the raw 
material; and foodservice. the latter comprises a 
wide range of sub-segments such as restaurants, 
business canteens and school kitchens. these 
were all shut down for large parts of 2020, with a 
significant decline in royal greenland's sales as a 
consequence. 
it is just as expected that a significant proportion of 
foodservice sales should go to private households 
instead. the surprising aspect, however, is the 
clear retail sales increase experienced by several 
european sales companies. consumers in europe 
not only purchased standard products, but also 
snow crab, prawn, lobster and greenland halibut, 
to cook at home. these are slightly more expensive 
products which are usually sold to restaurants to a 
great extent. 
during 2021 and 2022, when sales in europe 
hopefully normalise, it will be interesting to see 
which new consumption patterns emerge. one thing 
is certain: european consumers have become better 
at peeling prawns, splitting lobsters and boning 
snow crab at home in their own kitchens. 
europeans went dining - at home
 
57% 
63%
 
43% 
37%
 
2019 
2020
percentage turnover in europe  
by business area
      north atlantic champion         supporting
that the markets will recover relatively quickly, once 
the world returns to normal.
during the year, a lot of work was devoted to 
preparing for brexit, including new requirements of 
procedures and documents. to safeguard delivery 
capability to customers in the uk, in-country stocks 
were built up. this proved to be very worthwhile, since 
at the close of the year there was still no agreement 
between the uk and greenland concerning future 
customs tariffs on products imported from greenland.
scandinavia 
revenue in scandinavia amounts to dkk 1 billion, or 
23% of the group's revenue. revenue fell by 10% from 
2019.
scandinavia is particularly important for sales of prawn, 
cod, smoked products and breaded products. 
the scandinavian countries have adopted varying strate-
gies to fight covid-19, which is reflected in the sales 
performance in the respective markets. in denmark and 
norway, the foodservice area was closed down for large 
parts of the year, while sweden only introduced limited 
restrictions. as a consequence, sales in the swedish 
market were at the 2019 level, while norway and 
denmark lost ground. in denmark, however, to a great 
extent royal greenland was able to compensate for the 
lower foodservice sales by increasing retail sales.
unfortunately, as for the other markets, prices were 
under pressure.
covid-19 has changed consumer behaviour, and the 
focus was on matching the new trends to the great-
est possible extent. examples include click & collect, 
food and meal boxes, e-commerce and take-away in 
foodservice.
in the spring of 2020, it quickly became clear that 
digital, high-quality platforms would become 
an even more relevant tool than previously for 
royal greenland’s sales teams. reliable real-
time product data and images became crucial 
for an effective sales process in a time where 
physical meetings was not an option. 
royal greenland has for years offered a 
detailed, 
digital 
product 
catalogue 
for 
foodservice products. this platform was 
supplemented in the spring with an advanced 
application containing the company’s industrial 
products; all species, product specifications 
and delivery formats can be displayed through 
search. during the summer and early fall, 
we also launched a digital catalogue with 
retail products to support the dialogue with 
supermarket chains and the growing demand 
from the consumers. 
the digital platforms have streamlined the 
sales process and have further professionalised 
the dialogue with customers and supported 
the sales during a difficult time of business 
without the handshake.  
business without the handshake
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
19
18
north america 
in 2020, sales in north america increased to dkk 0.7 
billion, and now account for 14% of royal greenland's 
total sales.
the revenue growth of 26% is primarily due to signifi-
cantly higher sales of snow crab to retail and food-
service customers, which made it possible to achieve 
higher prices than from traditional industrial customers. 
this also meant that a large proportion of snow crab 
sales was moved to american, rather than japanese, 
customers.
retail contracts for cooked & peeled prawns could also 
be established with canadian and american customers, 
together with sales of a number of other products.
in overall terms, the very positive performance in the 
north american market has led to a decision to expand 
investment in this market, and increase staff numbers 
based at the office already established in boston.
in the course of a year, royal greenland attends 
several major trade fairs all over the world. in 
2020, the first trade fair to be cancelled because of 
covid-19 was seafood expo north america (sena), 
which should have taken place in march. 
the usa is still a relatively new market for royal 
greenland. traditionally, trade fairs and customer 
visits are important ways of meeting new business 
partners, presenting our products and networking. 
during the spring and summer, telephone calls, use 
of digital platforms and video meetings became 
the new daily routine for royal greenland’s sales 
office in boston. in the autumn, the digital network 
organisation ecrm offered two days of intensive 
virtual meetings between buyers and suppliers, and 
royal greenland naturally signed up for this. 
ecrm's platform made virtual meeting facilities 
and data capacity available, advising both buyers 
and suppliers on meeting planning, presentation 
management and subsequent follow-up. 
in the course of two days, two royal greenland 
colleagues from denmark and the usa, respectively, 
attended meetings with 21 potential customers 
across the usa who had already expressed interest 
in meeting royal greenland. each meeting lasted 
just 20 minutes, as a kind of ‘speed-dating’. this type 
of meeting was surprisingly effective and resulted 
in a number of interesting agreements, which have 
become actual sales orders.  
virtual customer meetings replaced trade fair 
participation in the usa
new products and innovation
the aim of royal greenland's internal development projects and partici-
pation in external research collaboration is to increase the utilisation and 
value of our core species and prioritised product areas.
the strategic species and product portfolio is concentrat-
ed on the core north atlantic species. the primary aim 
of innovation projects is to maximise value and process-
es at an early stage of the value chain. for consumers, 
there is also a focus on developing specific products to 
meet consumer trends, and on creating market-oriented 
product solutions. 
shell-on prawns in a new three-year industrial 
research project 
royal greenland's prawn activity is a core strategic 
area in which research and opportunities to gain 
new expertise rank high on the list of priorities for 
development resources. once again in 2020, it was 
pleasing to note that royal greenland was able 
to start up an industrial research project with the 
support of innovation fund denmark, in this instance 
with focus on shell-on prawns. the project ’shell-on 
prawns – new technologies to manage oxidation, and 
microbiological quality and food safety (newsop)’, is 
being undertaken by hanne aarslev jensen, in close 
cooperation with the national food institute under the 
technical university of denmark (dtu) in lyngby (north 
of copenhagen). 
the project was started up in april, but due to the 
covid-19 pandemic, the process was changed from 
start-up directly in the laboratory at the national 
food institute, to initial collection and documenta-
tion of available literature on quality parameters for 
sea-cooked prawn in terms of fishing, processing, 
microorganisms and conserving. 
when laboratory work became possible again, the first 
part of the actual project was launched, with the aim 
of investigating the reason for quality changes during 
frozen storage of shell-on prawns, and how these can 
be prevented. 
in the second part of the project, the aim is to develop 
new shell-on prawn products for cold storage. the 
development work is based on the national food 
institute's knowledge of conservation methods and 
microbiological quality changes and growth potential, 
and of models to predict bacterial growth, based on a 
product's characteristics. most of the industrial research 
project will take place at the national food institute. 
during the three-year project, field research will also 
take place, e.g. onboard royal greenland's prawn 
trawlers and at the processing plant in cuxhaven 
(germany). 
european waseabi research project to test fresh 
cod side-streams 
in 2020, for the second consecutive year, royal 
greenland took part in the european waseabi research 
project, which is running from 2019 to 2023, with the 
participation of three research institutions and nine 
european companies. the project is financed under the 
eu's horizon 2020 programme. 
royal greenland has conducted tests and frozen 
samples of fresh cod carcasses, heads and guts from 
production in maniitsoq. the samples were sent to the 
national food institute for durability testing the effect 
of antioxidants. the purpose is to investigate various 
potential uses for these resources from cod side-
streams, for the long-term development of healthy 
and nutritious ingredients.
scientific documentation of production chains 
in early summer 2020, the completed industrial 
research project ’capture-based aquaculture of atlantic 
cod (gadus morhua l.) in greenland’ was presented 
by jonas steenholdt sørensen who, besides his thesis 
in 2020, has published several scientific articles docu-
menting the work and the results. 
the aim of the project was to achieve scientific docu-
mentation and quality validation of three production 
chains for nutaaq® cod produced by royal greenland 
in maniitsoq. this has made it possible to gain vital 
new knowledge concerning fresh, frozen and thawed 
production chains. 
based on the results, royal greenland has developed 
optimised best practice for an innovative new produc-
tion process. the thesis results serve as the basis for 
production work, and also for market initiatives based 
on documentation of the high quality achieved by 
royal greenland from the professional and innovative 
activities undertaken during the past five years.
the industrial research project is financed by 
innovation fund denmark and royal greenland, and 
undertaken in close cooperation with the maniitsoq's 
processing plant's employees. 
scientific articles: 
article i:
jonas steenholdt sørensen, niels bøknæs, ole mejl-
holm and paw dalgaard. superchilling in combination 
with modified atmosphere packaging resulted in long 
shelf-life and limited microbial growth in atlantic cod 
(gadus morhua l.) from capture-based-aquaculture in 
this project has received funding from the 
bio based industries joint undertaking (ju) 
under grant agreement no 837726.  
the ju receives support from the european 
union’s horizon 2020 research and 
innovation programme and the bio based 
industries consortium.
in 2020, for the 
second consecutive 
year, royal  
greenland took 
part in the  
european waseabi 
research project
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
21
20
greenland. food microbiology, 88, 2020.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fm.2019.103405
article ii:
jonas steenholdt sørensen, niels bøknæs, ole 
mejlholm, karsten heia, paw dalgaard and flemming 
jessen. short-term capture-based aquaculture of 
atlantic cod (gadus morhua l.) generates good physic-
ochemical properties and high sensory quality during 
frozen storage. innovative food science & emerging 
technologies, 65, 2020. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifset.2020.102434
article iii:
jonas steenholdt sørensen, oliver Ørnfeld-jensen, 
niels bøknæs, ole mejlholm, flemming jessen and 
paw dalgaard. thawed and chilled atlantic cod (gadus 
morhua l.) from capture-based aquaculture in green-
land - options for improved distribution. lwt - food 
science and technology, 131, 2020. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lwt.2020.109473
illustration below
a) catch using pound nets
b) live storage in fishermen's cages
c) transfer of live cod onboard the well boat
d) live storage before transfer to the processing facility
e)  anaesthesia, decapitation, bleeding, sorting, fillet-
ing and freezing maximum two hours after the cod 
left the water.
newfoundland lobster online 
via the canadian division quin-sea fisheries, royal 
greenland has invested considerable economic and 
human resources in developing lobster production in 
the canadian province. in 2020, the organisation was 
capable of delivering raw, cooked and live lobster to 
the whole world. since distribution channels were 
closed due to covid-19, the organisation took the 
initiative to establish local canadian distribution of 
live lobster via an online platform on which consum-
ers can place direct orders. this is a typical example 
of an innovative local measure undertaken by the 
organisation.  
lumpfish roe in practical new piping bag 
royal greenland's lumpfish roe from greenland is 
primarily sold to retail consumers in small 50-100g 
glass jars. for the foodservice sector, there is both red 
and black lumpfish roe in 250g pet trays. 
in recent years, lumpfish roe has undergone consider-
able development to reduce salt content and introduce 
natural colours. these improved products have attract-
ed market interest, and customers in the foodservice 
sector have requested a dosing method that is more 
practical than pet trays. lumpfish roe is often used 
to garnish open-faced sandwiches, plated salads and 
tapas dishes, where precise dosing enhances overall 
presentation. with inspiration from the dosing method 
used for toppings, royal greenland has developed a 
piping bag for rapid, precise and hygienic lumpfish 
dosing. the piping bag's content of 250g is a suitable 
size for most professional kitchens. the product can 
also be ordered as 1kg bags, with a practical reseal-
during a normal year, royal greenland's own chefs 
and product developers often take part in customer 
visits. they collaborate with sales staff to present, 
prepare and advise on various products. during 
the covid-19 pandemic, on several occasions the 
product development kitchen in denmark was 
transformed into a photo and food studio. with the 
help of advanced film, lighting and audio equipment, 
we could meet up virtually with customers, to give 
lively and interesting food preparation and product 
presentations. customers could observe directly 
from their own kitchens, while preparing sample 
products, or receive samples and guidance after the 
presentation. 
in several markets, royal greenland invited customers 
to attend webinars to which they could log in and 
view a presentation of new products. subsequently, 
several presentations were made available on our 
web platform.
online product presentations 
able clip, so that the lumpfish can be stored in the 
refrigerator for up to five days. 
new range of vesterhavs (north sea) plaice 
has generated strong demand
one of royal greenland's more consumer-oriented 
new product launches in 2020 was a new range of 
breaded plaice products. this range is designed for 
professional foodservice customers in denmark, for 
whom high quality and good craftmanship are impera-
tive. this range, called ’vesterhavs plaice’, comprises 
fish caught in danish north sea waters. the plaice 
fillets have high-quality breading based on coarse 
wheat-based breadcrumbs and egg. the coarse bread-
ing and high-quality raw materials ensure an extra 
crispy product, which appears tasty and homemade, 
also due to the low breading ratio. 
the plaice fillets can be prepared straight from frozen 
state and have generated sound demand from not 
only kitchens and restaurants, but also fishmongers, 
and are perfect for open-faced sandwiches, cold fish 
dishes and hot meals. 
in accounting terms, the product development costs 
defrayed for all development activities are recognised 
in the income statement.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
23
22
keeping fishing and production  
activities as close to normal levels 
as possible, despite the pandemic
the covid-19 pandemic has also presented major challenges for fishing and 
production activities, requiring many practical measures to protect employees and 
maintain activity levels. optimising the value of the fish resources always takes high 
priority in royal greenland's fishing and production. it was possible to keep fishing 
and production running, thereby avoiding potential economic and social problems in 
our immediate communities.
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
prawns
25.003
26.935
26.852
30.991
29.753
greenland halibut
20.697
17.591
19.997
22.249
18.141
crab
1.055
1.330
1.535
1.551
1.581
roe
460
718
685
780
869
cod
21.432
19.199
14.028
10.227
10.611
other
557
521
341
947
705
total
69.204
66.294
63.438
66.745
61.660
catches landed to royal greenland in greenland (tonnes)
the new sisimiut 
fishing trawler  
has almost doubled 
the average daily 
catch. furthermore, 
the unloading time 
has been reduced 
from three to four 
days, to now 16-24 
hours
catches have gone digital in greenland
local fishermen, fishery consultants from royal greenland 
and the it department have jointly made a digital 
quantum leap when it comes to registering and settling 
fishermen’s catch – all available from the mobile phone. 
for years, the more than 1.000 dinghy fishers, that land 
their catches daily to royal greenland along the west 
coast of greenland, have been used to sail in to the quay 
with the catch, contact the catch landing facility, fill out 
the paperwork and await weighing and registry, often 
queuing behind other fishermen. 
in 2019, to better assist the many fishermen and optimise 
the registrations, royal greenland set out to develop a 
digital solution.
the app factors in the entire process from catch to 
cash settlement, so that fishermen signed up for the 
app already register their catch and position in the app 
on location at the fishing ground. arriving at the catch 
landing facility, the catch is weighed, registered and 
quality assured by the staff before finally gathering 
the data in a web application, that sends data to the 
underlying it systems. from these systems, data is also 
sent to greenland’s fisheries license control authority, 
gflk and finally the fisherman receives a bank statement 
directly in the app, where the value and weight of the 
catch is displayed immediately. 
by the end of 2020, more than 40 fishermen – all from 
ilulissat, which have piloted the commissioning – were 
registered as users of the app. during 2021, the new digital 
registration and cash settlement is expected to spread to a 
row of other catch landing facilities along the coast. 
raw material: fisheries  
and procurement
greenland  
privileged access to quotas is vital for royal green-
land, whether this is ensured with own fisheries, or 
by processing raw material from external shipping 
companies and fishermen in the group's facilities.
fisheries 
royal greenland’s fleet comprises three ocean-going 
prawn trawlers, two ocean-going production trawlers 
for greenland halibut, cod, etc., a line boat for 
greenland halibut, cod, etc., and two smaller inshore 
prawn trawlers. to increase the volume of greenland 
halibut landed for processing, royal greenland has 
also invested in a number of larger cutters for fishing 
in northern greenland. 
the trawlers m/tr sisimiut and m/tr avataq were put 
into operation in 2019. both vessels fished well in 
2020, but also, as expected, faced some commis-
sioning challenges, as is normally the case when 
new trawlers are put into production. despite these 
challenges, we have proved that the new trawlers can 
fish and deliver to a significantly higher standard. the 
new sisimiut fishing trawler, for example, has almost 
doubled the average daily catch. furthermore, the 
unloading time has been reduced from three to four 
days, to now 16-24 hours.
in a single trip, the m/tr avataq prawn trawler set a 
new all-time record of almost 1,000 tonnes, and the 
use of triple trawl proved its worth in outlying areas 
where catches are normally small.
despite the pandemic, the trawler replacement invest-
ment programme was maintained. in 2021, the m/tr 
nataarnaq prawn trawler will thus be replaced with a 
new trawler being built at murueta astilleros shipyards 
in bilbao (spain). a contract has also been established 
for the replacement of the m/tr tuugaalik trawler, with 
planned delivery of the new trawler from the same 
yard in 2022.
under the pelagic greenland joint venture with the 
icelandic company isfélag, two pelagic trawlers are 
operated for fishing off east greenland. in 2020, the 
company's tasiilaq trawler was replaced by a newer 
pelagic trawler, christian i grótium, which has greater 
fishing and freezing capacity. the new trawler is 
named tasiilaq.
the group fished a total of 58,500 tonnes in 2020, 
which is an increase of 5% from 2019. the improve-
ment is due to higher prawn fishing capacity, as a 
consequence of the launch of m/tr avataq. the level of 
pelagic fishing was lower than in 2019, due to the re-
placement of the trawler during the mackerel season.
there was no fishing off svalbard or east greenland. 
in 2020, the prawn quota for west greenland was in-
creased to 110,000 tonnes, and raised further in 2021 
to 115,000 tonnes, in accordance with the biological 
recommendations and the msc management plan. 
procurement 
royal greenland’s processing plants in greenland 
received 61,660 tonnes of fish and shellfish during the 
financial year, which represents a decrease of 8%.
the decline is due to lower catches of prawn, and 
particularly greenland halibut. on the other hand, cod 
landing increased from the levels seen in recent years. 
the increase in landing of live cod for the nutaaq pro-
duction in maniitsoq is very positive. this provides a 
better basis for improving the land-based production. 
for the first time in many years, the average landing 
price is lower than the year before, having dropped by 
almost 7% in 2020, driven by the general market de-
cline due to covid-19. prices for prawn, cod, lumpfish 
roe and crab fell in particular. 
in 2020, payment to coastal fishermen in greenland 
totalled dkk 750 million. during a nine-year period, 
the total payment to fishermen in greenland increased 
by dkk 422 million. 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
25
24
royal greenland employs more than 360 crew members 
on board our own 8 seagoing vessels and a number of 
vessels in subsidiaries. fishery takes place in the north 
atlantic, along the west coast of greenland, in the 
baffin bay in northern greenland and in the barents 
sea. a trip typically lasts for up to 6 weeks and the 
crew, coming from different places, typically onboard in 
northern norway, iceland and in greenland. 
when covid-19 paralyzed the world in march 2020, 
large parts of international flights were cancelled, and 
the scheduled crew shifts became impossible. the crew 
ready for departure had to stay at sea, while all efforts 
were put into navigating a new and critical situation; 
how do we ensure our crew’s journey home as well as 
onboard a new crew all the while avoiding bringing any 
risk of infection or contamination on board the vessels? 
during april 2020, royal greenland succeeded in 
changing 200 crew members on 7 vessels during 
one day through a close collaboration with health 
authorities and chartered plane from the faroe islands 
and greenland. all crew members of the new crew 
were tested for covid-19 and isolated 14 days prior to 
the crew shift and new routines were established. 
the remainder of 2020 went on without any 
cases of infection on board and new standards for 
tests, quarantine and other safety measures were 
established. the crew has displayed a remarkable sense 
of responsibility during this time and strictly apply all 
safety measures. 
during 2020, royal greenland’s fleet jointly landed 
58.000 tons of seafood, making a continuous operation 
of the fleet crucial for the business. at the beginning of 
2021, all crew members have spent a total of 830 days 
in quarantine in their homes or at hotels – an expensive, 
tiring and difficult time for both the individual employee 
and for the company, but essential for an effective 
operation of our joint workplace.
crew shifts during a time of covid-19
m/tr avataq breaks all catch records
large prawn trawlers in greenland typically land 
between 400 and 600 tons of prawns after each trip. 
in january 2020, the biggest and most modern prawn 
trawler to date in the history of fishing in greenland, 
m/tr avataq, was initiated into the fishery following its 
christening in nuuk. 
after the first couple of months with commissioning, 
where the changing crews got familiar with operating 
the vessel, the captain jógvan tróndarson and his crew 
landed a record catch for the fishery of greenland; a 
total of 903 tons of cold-water prawns were landed 
after just 3 weeks of fishing.
the trawler's other captain, tórdar dímon and his crew 
did not leave the record unchallenged and already 
in august broke the record with 24 tons, when they 
landed 927 tons, also after three weeks of sailing.
with a hold capacity of 2.850 cubic meters, measuring 
82,3 meters in length and 18 meters wide, the biggest 
trawler in greenland is designed based on new 
principles. not only does the trawler deliver a more 
efficient fishery, it is also more climate friendly. with 
less sailing, the trawler travels less sea miles and sails 
exclusively on marine gas oil, which contains les sulfur 
than the traditional heavy fuel. 
strong season for fresh cod
royal greenland's solid position in the cod market has 
gradually become firmly cemented with the highly 
appreciated nutaaq® cod. it was therefore positive that 
2020 was a season with stable deliveries of live cod 
from a large geographical area along the west coast of 
greenland. 
the cod season, which runs from may to october, 
involved a record-high number of fishermen, from 
qeqertarsuaq in the north to paamiut in the south, with 
all of the fishermen collecting bonuses based on the 
volumes delivered. 
the excellent volume and good quality of the cod, 
together with new employees from other areas, made 
it possible to scale up production to two shifts at the 
factory in maniitsoq during the late summer. the 
nutaaq® cod filleted here is now ready for better times 
in european restaurants, which account for a significant 
share of the demand. 
however, not all the live cod was filleted. a small 
proportion was frozen as whole fish and stored for the 
production of the popular ‘chilled selection™’ series, 
which is thawed and filleted at royal greenland’s factory 
in cuxhaven, germany, and sold fresh to european 
restaurants and chains. 
canada
procurement 
royal greenland does not operate its own fishing in 
canada. all production is based on procurement of 
fish and shellfish from independent fishermen and 
shipping companies, with which it is therefore vital to 
have sound cooperation.
in newfoundland, the principal species are snow crab 
and prawn.
after several years of declining quotas, the crab quota 
in newfoundland was increased by 10% in 2020. 
royal greenland’s newfoundland subsidiary, quin-sea 
fisheries, increased its activities, and on the back of 
the higher quota succeeded in increasing its market 
share again this year. 
in 2020, quin-sea entered into an agreement with 
clearwater seafoods to acquire a processing facility 
in st. anthony. a new joint venture, st. anthony sea-
foods, has been established with clearwater seafoods. 
activities primarily concern cooked & peeled prawn, 
but also white fish.
in quebec/gulf of st. lawrence, rather surprisingly the 
prawn quota was raised. stable prawn development is 
expected in 2021. the newly-established crab factory 
performed well in 2020, and further growth in the 
crab supply is expected in 2021.
in nova scotia, the crab stock is healthy, and larger 
quotas are expected in the coming years. royal green-
land's subsidiary, a&l seafoods, saw high activity in 
2020, and again in 2021 further growth in the crab 
intake is expected.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
27
26
for arctic fish greenland, a joint company owned by 
local fishermen in kullorsuaq and nuussuaq in northern 
greenland, and royal greenland, 2020 was a busy 
construction year. at the end of the year, a new factory 
for the head and tail cutting of greenland halibut was 
ready in nuussuaq. 
the factory has a total area of 700m2. with daily 
production capacity of towards 16 tons and storage 
capacity of 500 tons, the factory can employ up to 
30 people and service the settlement’s 45 fishermen, 
who can land catches at the factory all year round. 
the jointly owned company was established in 2017 
and its development has been particularly positive for 
both the local fishermen and employees and for royal 
greenland.
opening of a new factory in northern greenland
in overall terms, 20,000 tonnes of raw material were 
purchased for processing at the factories in atlantic 
canada, with increasing crab volumes, but lower 
prawn volumes.
other procurement
to supplement our own production of cooked & 
peeled prawns, 900 tonnes of msc-certified prawns 
were purchased in 2020, for production at the prawn 
factories in sisimiut, greenland and old perlican, 
newfoundland.
as a supplement to greenland halibut purchased in 
greenland, 1,400 tonnes of greenland halibut were 
purchased from external sources in norway and cana-
da, for processing in poland, china and denmark. the 
processed products are used in smoked production, or 
sold to customers in europe.
raw materials such as salmon, warmwater prawns, 
flat fish and msc-certified cod are procured in the 
world market. msc-certified cod, primarily from 
norway, constitutes the largest individual element, 
at 4,500 tonnes. this msc-certified cod serves as a 
supplement to our greenlandic cod.
salmon is procured primarily from norway for the 
smoking facility in hirtshals. in 2020, an unchanged 
3,300 tonnes of farmed atlantic salmon was pur-
chased. the fresh salmon is delivered to the smoking 
facility. also in 2020, a proprietary salmon-filleting 
plant was established in Øksfjord, northern norway, to 
strengthen the production of smoked salmon.
7,700 tonnes of flounder and plaice were purchased 
for processing at the a. espersen factory in koszalin 
(poland). flounder is used for breaded fillets of fish for 
the scandinavian market, while plaice is to a greater 
extent sold as natural fillets and filled products. royal 
greenland continues to purchase raw material under 
the cooperation agreement with a. espersen in ko-
szalin. as a supplement to plaice and flounder, 3,000 
tonnes of yellow fin and rock sole were purchased. 
plaice is purchased at auction in denmark, while 
flounder is fished from danish and polish trawlers in 
the baltic sea.
royal greenland has established cooperation with a 
norwegian crab boat to purchase snow crab as a supple-
ment to the snow crab activities in canada, greenland 
and chile. the development in barents sea quotas is 
very promising, and activity levels have been increa-
sing. almost 500 tonnes of snow crab were processed.
production
greenland 
royal greenland owns 38 facilities in greenland, of 
which five are operated in collaboration with local 
fishermen and employees. all facilities are in ope-
ration. the facilities are all operated without service 
contracts from the government of greenland.
activity was at a lower level than in 2019, and with 
significant variation between the species. there 
was continued high activity at the prawn factories 
and increased cod activity, particularly the nutaaq 
production in maniitsoq. on the other hand, greenland 
halibut activity declined by 20%.
even though the level of investment in the greenlan-
dic facilities was reduced in 2020, due to covid-19, 
during the past five years more than dkk 480 million 
has been invested, to achieve the objective of a high-
er processing level at the facilities in greenland.
in 2020, there was focus on completion of the 
expansion of the greenland halibut capacity, including 
the commissioning of a new facility in nuussuaq, in 
the upernavik area. besides the capacity increases, a 
number of greenland halibut facilities were realigned 
in order to support the aim of further local processing. 
in the future, more facilities will produce both j-cuts 
and fillets, and not just whole fish as before. these 
realignments are continuing in 2021.
at the prawn factories in sisimiut and ilulissat, 
significant investments in production and buildings 
commenced in 2020. 
with regard to cod, the final official approvals of the 
new cod processing facility in sisimiut are still pend-
ing, and the facility has not yet been commissioned. it 
is expected to be taken into operation in 2021.
the new ownership model under arctic fish, whereby 
fishermen and employees are co-owners of two 
processing plants in nuussuaq and kullorsuaq, 
respectively, in the upernavik area, continues to be 
very successful, with increased activity and sound fi-
nancial performance. as from 1 january, the arctic fish 
collaboration will comprise three processing plants in 
northern greenland.
it continues to be very challenging to achieve a sufficiently 
large workforce, particularly during high season. royal 
greenland has recruited manpower from other areas of 
greenland with high unemployment rates, to work in the 
processing facilities in maniitsoq, uummannaq and ilulissat, 
and also recruited manpower from abroad. the travel 
restrictions in 2020 made it very difficult to obtain the 
manpower required, which affected production at several 
locations, including maniitsoq and uummannaq. we continue 
to work with the authorities to attract foreign manpower to 
greenland. the opportunity to employ more manpower from 
abroad will increase opportunities for processing in green-
land, and thereby also generate greater economic value.
canada 
with nine processing plants in newfoundland, quebec 
and nova scotia, royal greenland has significant 
inshore fishing activities in canada. a total of 20,000 
tonnes of raw material were landed to the factories in 
atlantic canada.
besides snow crab, lobster and prawn, the newfound-
land activities include sea cucumber, cod, greenland 
halibut and pelagic species. after the establishment of 
the new facility in new harbour, during the past couple 
of years lobster has become an important species, on a 
par with prawn.
via quin-sea fisheries, royal greenland owns seven 
processing facilities in newfoundland, including the 
joint-venture facility in st. anthony. 
in quebec, royal greenland runs a processing plant for 
cooked & peeled prawn and crab. as a consequence 
of excess processing plant capacity, there is intense 
competition for the raw material. the expansion of 
activities to include crab proceeded very positively.
in nova scotia, a crab factory is operated under the 
auspices of a&l seafoods.
denmark 
royal greenland's range of smoked products is pro-
duced by a subsupplier in denmark. the group has no 
other production activities in denmark.
cuxhaven, germany 
royal greenland operates five factories at three 
locations in cuxhaven. they produce lumpfish roe in 
jars, the zip-lock/chain-pack range and fresh fish, as 
well as prawns in brine, and packing of frozen prawns. 
the factories are subject to shared management and 
administration.
cuxhaven is royal greenland’s european production 
centre. it is expected that potential new production in 
europe will also be located in cuxhaven.
china  
for many years, royal greenland has collaborated with 
chinese subsuppliers that process raw material from 
greenland into high-quality sushi products for the 
japanese market. cod and salmon are also processed 
for sale and further processing in europe. process-
ing of greenlandic cod in china was discontinued in 
2020. instead, the fish is sold to industrial customers. 
production of purchased msc-certified cod will be 
continued in china. 
chile  
the new joint venture in chile got off to a slow start, 
as a consequence of the covid-19 restrictions. the 
expected raw material volumes were not produced in 
2020. on the other hand, the activities were optimised 
and better integrated into royal greenland's business 
system. the outlook for 2021 is positive.
production in chile primarily concerns crab (king crab 
and snow crab) and patagonia toothfish/chilean seabass.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
29
28
at the end of 2020, activities in atlantic canada are a 
strong element of our overall business 
from both market and production perspectives, there are 
significant synergies between the species caught and 
produced in greenland and atlantic canada. back in 2016, 
royal greenland invested in the newfoundland-based 
company quin-sea fisheries. this investment has made a 
significant contribution to the group's fine performance, and 
to developing new initiatives within fisheries and processing 
in the canadian province. 
in the first few years, the integration of quin-sea's five 
factories in newfoundland required a lot of time to gain a full 
insight into the business and understand the local conditions. 
during the last few years, a lot of things have happened; the 
local organisation has been strengthened significantly, all five 
factories have undergone full integration to sap on a par with 
the rest of the group, and a number of core functions within 
category and business development have been established. 
in 2019, royal greenland invested in nova scotia through the 
acquisition of 100% of the shares in a&l seafood, a well-
run company with substantial crab activities. in both 2019 
and 2020, the supply of crab from nova scotia contributed 
significantly to the group's development. 
in autumn 2020, royal greenland acquired 75% of the shares 
in st. anthony seafoods, which is located on the northern 
reaches of newfoundland's great northern peninsula. this 
is where leif eriksson is said to have reached land on his 
expedition via greenland almost 1,000 years ago, and 
where the remains of the first viking settlement have been 
discovered. today, there is a busy fishing town where many 
fishermen land their catches of prawn and cod, which are 
business areas we have high expectations towards. 
iinvestment and development of important raw 
materials
there has been considerable investment in the crab and 
lobster business in particular. for the crab business, the 
acquisitions have created a strong foundation for joint sales 
and marketing of crab from both canada and greenland. in 
2020, retail packaging of crab for the us market commenced. 
with the outbreak of covid-19, and the shutdown of large 
parts of the foodservice market, retail demand for canadian 
crab rose significantly, and within just a few months we 
procured and installed local equipment and scaled up crab 
packaging for the american market. the crab production 
project team worked around the clock to create great results. 
within the lobster business, royal greenland's investments 
in facilities for the storage and packaging of live lobster and 
the start-up of the fishery improvement project (fip) for the 
lobster stock in newfoundland attracted a lot of attention 
and recognition. the ambition is for some of the live lobster 
to be flown out for sale to such countries as china. once 
again, covid-19 interfered with some of the plans. to boost 
domestic demand in canada, royal greenland launched the 
'newfoundland lobster' brand and an associated online 
platform where customers could order live lobster locally. 
at the end of 2020, the activities in atlantic canada were a 
strong element of the overall portfolio. on the market side, 
products and know-how are in demand. in organisational 
terms, we succeeded in attracting skilled employees within 
both category and business development, who have now been 
established locally at the st. john's office in newfoundland. 
xxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxx
lobster fishing by locals
southern harbour
old perlican    
southern harbour 
conche seafood
st. anthony seafoods
cape broyle 
cupids 
matane  ■   
a&l seafood - louisbourg  ■   
new harbour 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
31
30
food safety
food safety, traceability and high quality are key parameters  
for royal greenland.
covid-19 definitively set the food safety agenda for 
2020, even though it has repeatedly been emphasised 
that covid-19 cannot be transmitted directly via food, 
and that food products therefore do not constitute a 
risk.
this situation has not entailed any downgrading of 
royal greenland's other food safety activities. as 
always, this is an area that takes the highest priority, 
and of which there is constant high awareness.
fish is healthy, and fish products play a key role in 
the latest official dietary recommendations from the 
danish authorities (january 2021). the message is 
clear – eat more fish and shellfish. royal greenland's 
task is to deliver a wide range of high-quality products 
that make it both easy and inspiring to eat fish and 
shellfish. in this respect, ready-to-eat products are an 
important category, since they represent easy prepara-
tion and a wide range of different flavours. this is also 
the product category that sets the most exacting food 
safety requirements, in particular to protect products 
from the occurrence and propagation of pathogenic 
bacteria such as listeria monocytogenes.
in this area in particular, royal greenland is an abso-
lute leader due to a tested and recognised strategy for 
production of ready-to-eat products (such as smoked 
greenland halibut and prawns in brine) to a high and 
well-documented food safety standard. involvement 
in various research and development projects has laid 
the foundations for royal greenland's food safety. the 
recurring theme of these projects has been process 
and product development, with the aim of gener-
ating new knowledge and developing tools for the 
improvement and documentation of both food quality 
and food safety.
the food safety strategy is closely related to and 
supported by strong food safety awareness. royal 
greenland's food safety culture is based on shared 
values, dedication, know-how, communication and 
competence development. the last-mentioned is an 
important action area for royal greenland, and every 
year, many resources are devoted to education and 
training in every part of the organisation, from produc-
tion to sales. this contributes to developing compe-
tent, independent employees, who can take important 
decisions, also in matters concerning food safety.
as a food supplier with production and deliveries to the 
entire world, royal greenland works with strict hygiene and 
cleaning requirements on all production units, both on land 
and at sea. therefore, when covid-19 spread in the spring, it 
was a great advantage to be able to draw on already existing 
measures to create maximum protection against the spread 
of the virus among our staff.
a small group of employees in key positions were appointed 
as central and decentralised task forces. throughout the year, 
they have been in close dialogue with the health and food 
authorities to keep up to date with developments in covid-19 
and associated guidelines. daily reporting and discussions 
with top management have formed the framework for 
extensive coordination across departments and countries.
royal greenland operates 37 production facilities in 
greenland, nine factories in atlantic canada and three units 
for the production and packaging of five types of finished 
goods categories in cuxhaven in germany. in the different 
countries, local guidelines are followed based on national 
recommendations and safety measures. all plants and factories 
operate with risk level 1, 2, 3 or 4, where 1 is normal production 
and 4 is illness among the staff or in the immediate family.
general guidelines and crisis management have been 
extended to include covid-19.
•  a contingency plan for suspected and confirmed cases of 
covid-19 has been implemented in all business areas
• new adjusted health certificates
•  stricter requirements for hand hygiene with e.g. hand 
sanitizer at all entrances
•  stricter requirements for more frequent cleaning of both 
production areas and common areas (telephones, door 
handles, coffee machines, changing rooms, etc.)
•  introduction of staggered working hours and only small 
designated groups in common areas at the same time
• no physical contact with each other - no handshakes
• training of all employees
• training of external suppliers e.g. cleaning staff
•  key employees do not work together physically, where it 
is possible
•  to the greatest possible extent, administrative staff in the 
production units work from home when risk levels are 
higher than 1
•  informative signs are visible everywhere, and employees 
with even the slightest symptoms must stay at home
by the time covid-19 reached the northern hemisphere 
in march, royal greenland had seven of the group's eight 
sea-going trawlers fishing and planned crew changes were 
postponed. the first collective change was made in april 
after a 14-day quarantine for the enlisted crew members 
and then the fleet found new routines and so-called corona 
bubbles with tight restrictions, covid-19 tests and quarantine 
periods prior to each crew change. on board the vessels, the 
distance requirements cannot be met. therefore, it is crucial 
that any enlisted crew is disease free.
in all countries, local offices have strictly complied with 
national guidelines from the authorities, and most offices 
have had very limited attendance and meetings have mainly 
taken place online. depending on the size of the office 
facilities from the head office in nuuk in greenland to the 
smaller sales offices with few employees, central office 
principles apply, adapted to national guidelines:
•  strongly reduced staffing plan based on the authorities' 
recommendations (work from home)
• as a rule, visitors are not allowed
•  there must be distance between people, both standing and 
sitting at desks, in meeting rooms, for lunch, etc.
• gloves must be used when serving lunch at the buffet
•  all doors to offices and common areas are open to the 
extent possible
•  stricter requirements for cleaning common facilities and 
hand hygiene
as with all other companies, the covid-19 pandemic will 
leave a significant impact and create new habits and routines 
at royal greenland. although everyone has supported the 
necessary restrictions, it is also clear that good colleagues 
are important for one’s well-being and that one longs for 
companionship, dynamic, exchanging ideas and learnings 
and shared development in the everyday life.
a year of comprehensive safety and quality management 
in the global organisation
k
n
o
w
l
e
d
g
e
  
  
  
 
c
o
m
m
u
ni
c
at
io
n 
   
   
  
  
 v
a
l
u
e
s 
  
 
  
 
c
o
m
m
i
t
m
e
n
t
c
o
m
p
et
en
ce
 d
ev
el
o
p
m
e
n
t
haccp
food safety  
culture
food safety  
strategy
risk
assessment
stabilisation
hygiene / cleaning
raw material quality
annual report
33
32
royal greenland a/s - 2020
royal greenland's suppliers are subject to the same 
high requirements and expectations, including certi-
fication approved by the global food safety initiative 
(gfsi), regular auditing and dna analyses of fish. 
purchased fish and shellfish may not originate from 
illegal, unregulated and unreported fisheries.
detailed inspection of our products and processes is 
important to maintain high food safety and ensuring 
traceability from sea to table. 
since 2012, the traceability of the raw material has 
been a statutory requirement in the fisheries industry. 
it must always be possible to trace the raw material 
one link forward and one link back in the value chain. 
the traceability requirements have gradually become 
stricter, and today the following raw material data is 
tracked:
landing date
landing port
country of origin
catch method
catch area
(fao)
catch area
(description)
carch area
sub-area
catch period
ship name
ship number
flag state 
iuu certifikate 
no.
alpha 3 code
production date
1. freezing date
expiry date 
(shelf life)
auth. no. 
production
auth. no.
secondary 
supplier
name of
aquaculture unit
factory name
(production unit)
town and country 
name of
(production unit)
every year, the group's processing plants welcome a large number 
of auditors who inspect and validate the factories. due to covid-19, 
one of the important international certifications, by the british 
retail consortium (brc), could not take place. fortunately, brc had 
developed a plan for remote audits, and in december the teams 
in ilulissat were busy preparing for the unusual remote audit 
procedure. 
in week 50, a large number of documents were reviewed, 
interviews were conducted on teams, and video recordings of the 
factory were reviewed by the brc auditors. the outcome was grade 
aa, the highest achievable level, for both the prawn factory and the 
prawn meal factory. 
online audit gives highest grade 
to the prawn factory in ilulissat
nauja heiselberg from rg quality in nuuk collaborates 
via microsoft teams with lab technician anja olsen from 
rg in ilulissat during the remote brc audit in 2020.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
35
annual report
34
g
r
e
e
n
l
a
n
d
 
h
a
l
i
b
u
t
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
s
a
l
e
s
 
o
f
f
i
c
e
s
c
o
o
k
e
d
 
&
 
p
e
e
l
e
d
 
p
r
a
w
n
s
l
u
m
p
f
i
s
h
 
r
o
e
s
h
e
l
l
-
o
n
 
p
r
a
w
n
s
s
n
o
w
c
r
a
b
p
r
a
w
n
 
f
l
o
u
r
g
r
e
e
n
l
a
n
d
 
c
o
d
production
certifications
qasigiannguit
maniitsoq
paamiut
msc coc, 
no ifs due to covid-19
quin-sea fisheries ltd.
(cupid, old perlican, cape broyle, 
southern harbour)
conche seafoods limited
msc
trawler masilik 
trawler avataq
trawler tuugalik
trawler sisimiut
msc, west greenland offshore 
halibut
production
certifications
cuxhaven, zip-lock
msc coc , asc, brc grade aa+,  
ifs higher level
dan salmon, røg produkter
msc coc/asc/global gab,  
ifs higher level
trading
msc coc/asc/global gab
production
certifications
royal greenland seafood a/s
royal greenland uk ltd.
royal greenland italy spa.
royal greenland japan ltd.
royal greenland vertriebs gmbh
rg seafood (qingdao) co. ltd. 
royal greenland norge as
royal greenland sweden ab
msc coc , asc
quin-sea fisheries ltd.
msc coc
production
certifications
sisimiut
msc coc, brc grade a
ilulissat
matane
msc coc, brc grade aa
quin-sea fisheries ltd.old perlican
msc coc, brc grade aa (extension) 
audit planned for may 2021
quin-sea fisheries ltd.st. johns
msc coc
cuxhaven caviar and prawns
msc coc, brc grade aa,  
ifs higher level
production
certifications
akunnaaq
atammik
attu
ikamiut
qeqertarsuatsiaat
qeqertarsuaq
kangaamiut
kangaatsiaq
qaarsut
maniitsoq
narsaq
paamiut
nuuk
itilleq
sisimiut
headoffice, nuuk
msc coc
cuxhaven, rogn
msc coc, brc grade aa,  
ifs higher level
production
certifications
trawler akamalik
trawler avataq
trawler nataarnaq  
(ice trawl greenland a/s)
msc, west greenland & faroe  
islands, north-east arctic  
cold-water prawns
cuxhaven caviar and prawns
msc coc, brc grade aa,  
ifs higher level
production
certifications
quin-sea fisheries ltd. 
(old perlican, st. johns, cape broyle)
conche seafoods limited
msc coc,  
brc audit planned for may 2021
production
certifications
ilulissat
brc grade aa
production
certifications
trawler sisimiut
msc, greenland cod, haddock and 
saithe from the barents sea and 
the north-east atlantic
it is still important 
to adhere to the 
”north atlantic 
champion” strategy 
of diversification 
across several 
core activities 
and various 
geographical 
markets and raw 
material areas
pandemic 
covid-19 created an extraordinary market and 
operational situation in 2020, which challenged royal 
greenland in every respect. the pandemic is probably 
a transient situation, but requires readiness for change 
in every area of operations, in order to minimise the 
damage left in its wake. 
measures to reduce this impact are the development 
of new sales channels, such as e-commerce, a better 
sales balance between retail and foodservice, a re-
duction of fisheries and production, a lower cost base, 
and a reduction of catch-landing prices for fishermen. 
it is naturally also necessary to ensure the required 
liquidity reserves.
in accordance with its mission and ownership, royal 
greenland has chosen to maintain the supply chain, 
thereby to a considerable extent serving as a buffer 
between the declining markets and the supply chain. 
it is still important to adhere to the ”north atlantic 
champion” strategy of diversification across several 
core activities and various geographical markets and 
raw material areas, since all other things being equal, 
this greater diversification will reduce the impact of 
extraordinary situations such as covid-19. 
raw material 
access to the raw material and the development in 
raw material prices are a significant operating risk for 
royal greenland. this risk is predominantly related to 
the live resources in the ocean around greenland and 
eastern canada. these stocks constitute 83% of royal 
greenland's total raw material resources. 
the quotas for royal greenland's core species are gen-
erally favourable. the prawn quota in greenland was 
increased in 2020 and will be raised further in 2021. 
on the other hand, the prawn quota in atlantic canada 
was reduced. the crab quota in greenland is stable, 
while it is increasing in atlantic canada.
for inshore greenland halibut, the quota in the three 
management areas in greenland has been unchanged, 
but is expected to be reduced, although not down to the 
level recommended by biologists. it should be noted that 
around 4,000 tonnes of the quota are not normally fished.
a significant element of the "north atlantic champi-
on" strategy is to diversify activities across several 
geographical resource areas, so as to also diversify 
the risk and reduce the volatility of the company’s 
earnings. 
concerning the development in the quotas, experience 
shows that lower quotas often entail higher sales 
prices, thereby maintaining the value of the activities. 
the uncertainty concerning the raw material resources 
requires a sharper focus on value optimisation of the 
raw material and an increased processing level, in 
order to maintain earnings from the resources. these 
areas are in focus in the “north atlantic champion”.
royal greenland’s raw material purchases total dkk 
1.8 billion. we seek continuously to maintain the rel-
ative earnings level, irrespective of the development 
in raw material prices. the aim is to hedge this risk 
by adjusting sales prices, as well as close follow-up 
and back-to-back currency hedging concerning major 
purchase and sales agreements.
financial risks 
through its operations, investments and financing, 
royal greenland is exposed to changes in exchange 
rates and interest rate levels. the parent company 
manages the financial risks on a centralised basis, and 
coordinates liquidity management, including capital 
procurement and the placement of surplus liquidity. 
the group pursues a financial policy that is based 
on a low risk profile, so that currency, interest rate 
and credit risks only arise on the basis of commercial 
conditions.
the use of derivative financial instruments is governed 
by a specific policy adopted by the supervisory board, 
as well as internal procedures to e.g. set amounts and 
determine which derivative financial instruments may 
be used.
currency risks  
the group's activities are affected by exchange rate 
fluctuations, since revenue is primarily invoiced in 
foreign currency, while costs, including wages and 
salaries, are primarily defrayed in danish kroner, euro, 
and canadian and american dollars.
risks
the covid-19 pandemic has led to risk exposure on an unprecedented 
scale in extraordinary market and operational conditions. in a norma-
lised world, royal greenland seeks to reduce vulnerability to fluctuations 
in quotas and catches by diversifying the intake of raw material across 
several stocks of core species, and across several geographical areas. 
the exposure to financial, currency and interest rate risks in global 
activities is monitored closely and reduced through the company’s fixed 
policy in this area. 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
37
36
the group will thus be exposed via net positions in a 
number of currencies. other countries than greenland 
and denmark account for 85% of the group's revenue, 
with an emphasis on the euro-area member states, 
china, japan, the uk, sweden and the usa. revenue 
in eur and dkk accounts for 39% of royal greenland's 
total revenue, and is not assessed to present any real 
currency risk. the primary currency exposure concerns 
us dollars, japanese yen, pounds sterling, swedish 
kronor and canadian dollars, and also, indirectly, 
chinese yuan. the group is also affected by fluctuating 
exchange rates, since a number of subsidiaries’ results 
and equity at the close of the year are converted to 
danish kroner on the basis of the average and bal-
ance-sheet date exchange rates, respectively.
currency risks are primarily covered by matching re-
ceipts and payments in the same currency, and by us-
ing forward contracts. the group's currency policy is to 
hedge 75% of the expected currency risks within six 
months, and 50% of the currency risks during a 6-12 
month period. large contracts are hedged individually. 
the currency risk in relation to eur is not hedged.
interest rate risks  
the interest-bearing debt has been swapped for dkk, 
eur and jpy. the proportion of the debt at variable in-
terest rates was 40% at the close of the financial year. 
an increase by 1 percentage point in the general level 
of interest rates would increase the group's annual 
interest costs by dkk 9.7 million.
sustainability – the natural choice
a strong sustainability focus will maximise royal greenland’s long-term earnings and 
lay a sound environmental, economic and social foundation.
at royal greenland, we are responsible for conducting 
sound business operations in a vertically integrated, 
international value chain on behalf of our owner, the 
government of greenland, while along the coasts of 
greenland and canada we contribute to safeguarding 
employment and stability in traditional fishing and 
hunting communities.
at royal greenland we will create maximum value, 
sustainable development and growth for all stakehold-
ers, both local and global, while reducing any negative 
impacts of our activities.
sustainability – the un’s sustainable  
development goals  
we have built up a broad sustainability programme 
that is founded on our business strategy, with specific 
goals for 2022 and ambitions for 2030.
royal greenland’s social responsibility and sustainabili-
ty initiatives are naturally based on the un’s 17 global 
goals for sustainable development. all 169 targets 
under the global goals were reviewed as part of this 
process, and 52 targets were selected for further 
consideration.
royal greenland has a considerable impact on several 
of the sustainable development goals, but goals 4, 
8, 12 and 14 are those for which royal greenland has 
the greatest opportunity to make a difference – see 
figure 1. 
the full sustainability programme is uploaded at 
https://www.royalgreenland.com/sustainability/. 
how we work with sustainability  
on the basis of the sustainability programme, continu-
ous adjustment and employee contributions, decisions 
are taken by the steering group and then implement-
ed in the organisation. the steering group comprises 
the executive board and managerial employees within 
communication, hr, marketing and sustainability. 
most recently, a representative of the canadian activi-
ties joined the steering group.
the steering group meets four times per year, with 
one meeting allocated to the annual evaluation. final 
overall decisions concerning the strategic direction are 
taken by the executive board and supervisory board.
fig. 2: competence and cohesion between the csr/sustainability 
steering group and decision makers.
figure 1: selection of primary  
sustainable development goals. 
screening process
workshop iii
sales - development - purchase
workshop ii
production - development - hr
workshop i
hr - sales - trawler
supervisory board
ceo & executive board
sustainability steering group
sustainability team
business units
inspiration from  
other companies
global trends
federation of  
danish industries - project
customer demands
experience
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
39
38
the sustainability activities are based on the natural 
resources to which we have access, and the four se-
lected sustainable development goals. this illustrates 
the importance of sustainable fisheries and increased 
use of natural resources. 
through a holistic approach to sustainability in the 
value chain, we wish to create the basis for new 
business opportunities, while reducing the negative 
impact on the environment. we meet our customers’ 
and consumers’ demand for sustainable products 
and also contribute to achieving the un’s sustainable 
development goals.
policies and reporting   
the following policies are covered by the sustainability 
programme:
• working environment policy (2020)
• sustainable fisheries policy (2019)
• environment and climate policy (2019)
• human rights policy (2019)
• anti-bullying and harassment policy (2018)
•  policy concerning the under-represented gender 
(2014)
• anti-corruption and bribery policy (2014) 
the policies can be read in their full length on our 
website: https://www.royalgreenland.com/ 
royal-greenland/sustainability/related-documents/
below is a description of royal greenland’s initiatives 
within the four selected sustainable development 
goals:
no. 14 life below water -  
sustainable fishing
no. 12 responsible consumption -  
responsible footprint
no. 8 decent work and economic growth -  
healthy working lives
no. 4 quality education -  
education in greenland
royal greenland has worked with sustainable business 
operation and development on a structured basis for several 
years. in 2020, the various efforts were brought together 
within the framework of un's 17 sustainable development 
goals.
based on the company's strategy, business areas and 
initiatives, four goals were selected as a framework including 
up to 25 underlying sub-goals, which are applied across the 
organisation.
royal greenland’s aim is to ensure that the work with 
sustainable solutions is a natural part of the employees' daily 
lives and that all colleagues see themselves in the company's 
sustainability programme. at the same time, in the on-going 
dialogue with customers and other stakeholders, we want 
our sustainability efforts to be about more than just reporting 
on target figures; therefore, at www.royalgeenland.com 
(link) you can meet a lot of our skilled colleagues who work 
with sustainability in their everyday lives.
sustainable fishing
our fisheries must be managed in accordance with the 
scientific advice and be certified by an independent third 
party. we procure fish and shellfish according to equivalent 
principles and contribute to building knowledge of sustainable 
fisheries, the marine environment and new species.
responsible footprint
we will maximise the degree of utilisation by creating new 
food products from the fish and shellfish that we produce. 
we will minimise our environmental footprint through 
responsible consumption and circular handling of non-
renewable resources.
healthy working lives
we will integrate a working environment and environmental 
system that addresses the physical and psychosocial working 
environment of all employees, and their well-being. we 
make the same requirements of our suppliers as we make 
of ourselves.
education in greenland
we take responsibility for competence development and 
education in greenland’s society through specific training 
programmes, in close cooperation with educational 
institutions and via our own royal greenland academy.
un’s sustainable development goals is the framework for 
royal greenland’s sustainability programme
sustainable products
fishery
purchase
production
business support
production  
for retail 
sales
sales  
to consumer
fig. 3: influence on royal greenland's value chain, with input from the sustainable development goals.
increase in positive influence
decrease in negative influence
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
41
40
we can divide our access to raw material into (i) ocean 
fishing, (ii) coastal fishing and direct purchase from lo-
cal fishermen, and (iii) purchase from external suppliers. 
more than 80% is fished from our own vessels or landed 
directly, so that only a small proportion is purchased in 
the world market. farmed species account for around 
3% of the total raw material volume. 
royal greenland’s sustainable fisheries policy obliges 
us to adhere to the development in new fisheries 
requirements, react to scientifically proven changes in 
populations, and participate actively in the development 
of new technology. 
our aim for both ocean and coastal fishing is to support 
a sustainable approach to fisheries management, based 
on a precautionary principle, and to work for the certifi-
cation of the most important fisheries. 
risks   
the greatest volume of raw material is sourced from 
greenland, where the following risks have been 
identified.
•  high total allowable catch (tac) determination com-
pared to the scientific advice
• surplus coastal fisheries capacity
• impacts on habitats
• ghost fishing with derelict fishing gear
for several years, the fixed tac quotas for coastal fish-
ing of greenland halibut and cod have exceeded the 
scientific recommendations. royal greenland wishes 
to have tac quotas that adhere to the recommenda-
tions, since a data-based approach based on scientific 
investigations is the best basis for management of a 
common stock. over a number of years, many new 
greenland halibut and cod fisheries operators have ap-
peared, which increases the political pressure on how 
tac is determined. this is particularly apparent towards 
the end of the year, when the quotas are often raised.
greenland's waters are extensive, and many areas 
are not fished at all. there is a requirement, however, 
for fishing in new areas to adhere to a precautionary 
principle. parties engaged in ocean-going greenland 
halibut fishing, for example, must apply for a licence 
to fish in new areas, since the authorities, ngos and 
msc certification require greater consideration than 
before of virgin areas with vulnerable ecosystems and 
habitats. 
the proportion of farmed raw material in royal 
greenland's own production is very small compared to 
wild-caught fish and shellfish. farmed raw material can 
present risks concerning medication and environmental 
pollution. at royal greenland, we require our suppliers 
to ensure responsible risk management through 
dialogue and acceptance of royal greenland's supplier 
code of conduct.
opportunities and goals 
focus on sustainable fishing safeguards resources. 
a higher proportion of certified species and fishing 
also gives access to more, and more advantageous, 
markets. this requires sustainability to be document-
ed. the european markets in particular are imposing 
requirements. in recent years, the focus on this area 
has increased equivalently in asia and the usa. 
the establishment of sound cooperation concerning 
certification with other industry operators in greenland 
and canada presents great opportunities to improve 
access to the markets. 
royal greenland is also independently engaged in trial 
fishing of sea cucumber and whelk, and harvesting of 
seaweed. 
our goals for 2022:
->  more than 60% of our raw material is certified 
->  more than 85% of our raw material is sustainable, 
based on internal assessment
->  commercialisation of at least one new species 
ambitions for 2030:
->  certification of more than 75% of our raw material 
->  more than 95% of our raw material is sustainable, 
based on internal assessment 
->  commercialisation of at least three new species
we believe that our goals and ambitions are clear 
and realistic, but require a number of measures, 
particularly within coastal fishing in greenland. royal 
greenland undertakes this work independently, and 
also through involvement in the sustainable fisheries 
greenland (sfg) partnership. the aim is to increase 
focus on identified risks, initiate fishery improvement 
projects (fips) and create a basis for msc certification 
of greenlandic fisheries. besides other greenlandic 
organisations, the greenland business association and 
the association of fishers and hunters in greenland 
(knapk) are also members of sfg. 
life nelow
water
sustainable fishing
our fisheries must be managed in accordance with the scientific advice and be 
certified by an independent third party. we procure fish and shellfish according to 
equivalent principles and contribute to building knowledge of sustainable fisheries, 
the marine environment and new species.
royal greenland is also a member of the global sus-
tainable seafood initiative (gssi), whose primary task 
is to assess sustainability standards. 
actions and results 
2020 was a busy year with many new management 
plans for fisheries in greenland. royal greenland par-
ticipated in working groups appointed by greenland's 
ministry of fisheries, hunting and agriculture, in coop-
eration with sustainable fisheries greenland. together 
with other operators, in 2020 sustainable management 
plans were drawn up for the following species:
- ocean-going greenland halibut 
- prawn fishing
- cod fishing in east greenland 
- lumpfish fishing 
- crab fishing
with the exception of the last-mentioned, these are 
all updates of existing msc certificates. the manage-
ment plan for crab is new, and in future there will be 
biological advice for eight crab management areas in 
west greenland. investigation has also commenced of 
the extent and seasonal variations in the prevalence 
of soft-shell crab, in order to determine an optimum 
fisheries season. this investigation is taking place in 
collaboration with pinngortitaleriffik (the greenland 
institute of natural resources). the many initiatives in 
2020 are expected to provide an adequate basis for 
msc certification of crab. 
coastal greenland halibut fishing
coastal greenland halibut fishing is not certified, but 
its management has progressed well, and today all 
coastal greenland halibut fishing in west greenland is 
subject to quotas.
three management areas have thus been established 
in the southern part of west greenland, within nafo 
1b-1f. this fishing was previously managed as non-reg-
ulated fishing, but nafo (the northwest atlantic 
fisheries organization) has recognised this area as an 
independent management area. qaanaaq, in north 
greenland, has been established as a management 
area.
parallel to this, the previous quota-free areas in the 
three northern management areas for greenland 
halibut, disko bay, uummannaq and upernavik, have 
been cancelled. all of these measures create a basis 
for far better management of coastal greenland halibut 
fishing.
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
development in share of msc-certified fisheries and ambitions for 2030
prawns west greenland
30
41
45
46
52
57
57
59
63
66
63
63
>75
40
greenland halibut, off-shore, west greenland
prawns, barentshavet
fip for in-shore greenland halibut
lobster, new foundland
crab, greenland
cod, haddock and saithe barents sea
lumpfish, in-shore west greenland
figure 7: msc certification of greenlandic and norwegian fisheries, of which royal greenland is part.
prawn fishery  
west greenland
2013
cod, haddock and saithe 
barents sea
2015
lumpfish fishery  
west greenland
2015
off-shore   
greenland halibut  
west greenland
2017
prawn fishery  
barents sea
2017
royal greenland a/s - 2020
43
annual report
42
another improvement measure is the creation of a set 
of recommendations as a consequence of the ongoing 
fishery improvement project (fip). royal greenland 
has contributed more than three million observations 
concerning the weight of the fish, which together with 
fish size can be used to determine optimum fisheries 
for all fisheries operators.
msc-certification
royal greenland is part of the ”client group” for five 
msc certifications (see figure 7) and contributes to 
partnerships preparing several forthcoming certifica-
tions. it takes time to prepare fisheries for certification. 
the standard sets many requirements, and may entail 
changes in national legislation, investigation methods 
and scope, and impose new requirements on actual 
fishing, including reporting. a project usually begins 
with a pre-assessment, to identify any weak points. 
these are improved via a fishery improvement project 
(fip). once a certificate has been achieved, it applies 
for five years, with annual status reviews. the fisheries 
are re-certified at the fourth monitoring audit, and on 
any new version of the standard. 
in 2020, 57% of the resources fished and purchased by 
royal greenland were certified, see figure 5. this means 
that more than half (51%) of our end-products carry the 
blue msc logo. 
new recommendations for management of the 
inshore greenland halibut fishery are ready
since 2018, a project group consisting of sustainable 
fisheries greenland (sfg), greenland fisheries license 
control authority gflk, fishermen and the catcher 
organisation knapk, greenland institute of natural 
resources and the ministry of fisheries, hunting and 
agriculture have worked closely together. the focal 
point has been a so-called fishery improvement project 
(fip), which has aimed to ensure the healthiest possible 
greenland halibut stock and the most appropriate 
management of the fishery.
in the long run, an overall optimisation of the coastal 
fishing for halibut in the administrative areas around 
upernavik, uummannaq and in disko bay enables that the 
fishery can be qualified for an msc certification and thus a 
blue stamp of the fishery as responsible and sustainable.
for royal greenland's commercial outlets, it is of course of 
great importance that the fishery is managed sustainably. 
through a chairmanship of sfg and the project's reference 
group, the company has a significant share in the 
recommendations that the group has reached.
in the autumn of 2020, the project group presented their 
recommendations, including fixed target for the fishery 
as the basis for management of the fishery, striving 
for average length of landed greenland halibut and 
alignment of mesh size on nets.
the department of fisheries, hunting and agriculture 
will be the decision-making authority in relation to 
the delimitation of the framework for future fisheries. 
royal greenland looks forward to being an important 
contributor to the implementation of new initiatives.
every year, all species and fisheries are reviewed in 
order to assess their sustainability status. the catego-
risation is based on a breakdown into sustainable, less 
sustainable and critical species, where the first-men-
tioned is defined as the fishing of healthy populations 
that are fished responsibly, in accordance with the 
biological advice (figure 6). 
around 80% of royal greenland’s species are fished 
sustainably, while 20% lie within the category of less 
sustainable fishing. this is primarily related to the 
inshore cod and greenland halibut fishing in greenland. 
the latest improvements in the management of coastal 
greenland halibut fishing mean that as from 2021, the 
fisheries will be, and will be categorised as, sustaina-
ble. the critical species account for only 0.1% and are 
eliminated in real terms. 
habitats and ecosystems
for many years, sustainable fishery greenland (sfg) and 
thereby royal greenland, together with the zoological 
society of london and pinngortitaleriffik (the green-
land institute of natural resources), have investigated 
trawled and non-trawled seabed areas. one of the 
msc requirements is that fisheries do not irreversibly 
damage vulnerable marine areas. project work so far 
indicates that there are cold-water coral reefs and 
sponges in some of the untouched areas. prawn fishing 
in the melville bay is therefore limited to particular 
areas, while operators of ocean-going greenland halibut 
fishing must apply for a licence to extend their current 
fishing area. 
gill nets and lines are the traditional methods used in 
coastal fishing. in recent years there has been greater 
awareness of lost fishing gear, also called ghost fishing. 
royal greenland has contributed a sponsorship to 
recover lost fishing gear in the disko bay, and through 
sfg has contributed to a trial to record the condition of 
the seabed concurrently with remediation. 
outlook for the coming year
we expect the commencement of msc certification of 
crab in greenland. there are still a few outstanding is-
sues that are expected to be clarified during 2021. if the 
certification process is launched in the autumn of 2021, 
certification could be achieved during 2022.
it is also expected that the fip recommendations 
concerning coastal greenland halibut fishing will entail 
further management measures, and that the prepara-
tion of an actual management plan will be launched. 
in our canadian activity, lobster is registered under a 
fishery improvement project (fip) at www.fisherypro-
gress.org. the ”client group” now includes a larger 
group covering newfoundland and labrador, besides 
royal greenland's subsidiary, quin-sea fisheries ltd. the 
project is being run in 2020-2024, and the fisheries are 
expected to achieve certification in 2025.
percentage distribution of purchased and fished  
raw materials in accordance with sustainability 
     sustainable        less sustainable        critical
fig. 6
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
100
80
60
40
20
0
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
2017
2018
2019
2020
share of certified fish resources
     msc %           
fig. 5
lobster 
new foundland
2019 - 2024
coastal greenland halibut  
west greenland
fip 2018 - 2021
crab
west greenland
fip 2020 - 2021
fig. 8: royal greenland's involvement in fishery improvement projects (fip) 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
45
44
new species 
our trials for the utilisation of new species in green-
land, such as seaweed, sea cucumber, and whelk, are 
ongoing, with the ambition to achieve commercialisa-
tion in due time. in 2020, around 2,000 kg of seaweed 
were harvested. the quantities will be increased, and 
an actual market will be identified, so that sale can be 
established.
sustainable development goals -  
sdg contributions
through its work with sustainable fisheries, royal 
greenland contributes to achieving the un's sustainable 
development goals by promoting fisheries that reflect 
the size of the stock, with due consideration of the sur-
rounding environment. our key contributions lie within 
the following targets1 :  
14.2: by 2020, sustainably manage and protect marine 
and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse 
impacts, including by strengthening their resilience, 
and take action for their restoration in order to achieve 
healthy and productive oceans.
14.4: by 2020, effectively regulate harvesting and 
end overfishing, illegal, unreported and unregulated 
fishing and destructive fishing practices and implement 
science-based management plans, in order to restore 
fish stocks in the shortest time feasible, at least to 
levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield as 
determined by their biological characteristics.
14.a: increase scientific knowledge, develop research 
capacity and transfer marine technology, taking into 
account the intergovernmental oceanographic commis-
sion criteria and guidelines on the transfer of marine 
technology, in order to improve ocean health and to 
enhance the contribution of marine biodiversity to the 
development of developing countries, in particular 
small island developing states and the least developed 
countries.
1https://www.sdgs.un.org/goals/goal14
responsible footprint
we will maximise the degree of utilisation by creating new food products from the fish and 
shellfish that we produce. we will minimise our environmental footprint through responsible 
consumption and circular handling of non-renewable resources.
responsible
consumption
the sustainability programme's responsible footprint 
campaign is defined in the environment and climate 
policy. 
the policy focuses on maximum utilisation of the fish 
resources landed in our processing plants or processed 
onboard our ocean-going factory vessels. the policy 
also sets the standard for the responsible utilisation of 
other environmental resources and describes initiatives 
within the following areas:
• reduction of consumables and materials
• recovery as a circular philosophy 
• use of renewable resources 
maximum utilisation of resources 
royalgreenland is focused on the greatest possible 
utilisation of our raw materials, by developing new 
food products, ingredients or feeds, and by using new 
technologies in cooperation with other sectors. 
in 2020, royal greenland utilised 67% of the landed 
raw material in greenland, and at group level the ratio 
was 65%. this means that there is still a considerable 
share that is not utilised. the remaining share is organ-
ic material comprising protein, fish oil and e.g. calcium 
from carcasses, called side-streams. 
risks 
side-streams present the challenge that the resi-
dual material differs considerably from the products 
traditionally produced. furthermore, some of these 
materials are at facilities that are located far apart, in 
logistics terms, since it should be noted that towns and 
settlements in greenland are not connected by roads, 
and that royal greenland operates a total of 38 pro-
cessing facilities on the west coast. this requires the 
collection of residual materials, innovative solutions, 
investments, external cooperation partners and the 
time to increase resource utilisation significantly. 
opportunities and goals
the best opportunities for better utilisation of re-
sources can be found at the large processing facilities, 
where relatively large volumes are processed, with 
equivalent large quantities of side-streams. among fa-
cilities in greenland, this particularly concerns sisimiut 
and maniitsoq.
in sisimiut, residual prawn shells, and thereby produc-
tion of prawn meal, are relevant. the technology for 
production of prawn meal is known from the prawn 
factory in ilulissat. there are equivalent opportunities 
at the prawn factories in old perlican, st. anthony and 
matane in canada. 
the degree of utilisation in the production of nutaaq 
cod, which is landed as live cod at the facility in maniit-
soq, is relatively low because guts and heads, which 
are discarded at sea in coastal fishing, are part of the 
first processing stage. here, there are good opportuni-
ties to increase resource utilisation.
the degree of utilisation of greenland halibut is 
already high, since more than 90% of the raw material 
is utilised. a large share of the raw material is sold 
as whole fish and processed by the buyer, or via own 
processing facilities in greenland and china, where 
heads, tails and fins can be sold. 
 
our goals for 2022: 
->  increase the utilisation of potential raw materials in 
the group to minimum 80%
->  develop new products with positive financial 
returns 
->  reduce the discharge of shells and fish residue via 
wastewater pipes
ambition for 2030: 
->  full utilisation of potential raw materials in the 
group
to achieve our goals, it is necessary to start with 
the realistic opportunities, viewed from a logistics 
standpoint. this means that we initially focus on 
the locations with side-streams on a scale that can 
serve as the foundation for the development of new 
products.
actions and results
the new m/tr sisimiut trawler is a factory trawler to 
process cod and greenland halibut into ready-for-sale 
products. the residual resource can also be processed 
onboard the trawler, since a fish meal and oil plant is 
installed onboard. the plant has not yet been taken 
into use, as adjustments were required prior to start-
up. it is expected to be commissioned in 2021. 
production of prawn meal at the prawn factory in 
sisimiut was planned to commence in 2020, but due 
to covid-19 it was not possible to construct the prawn 
meal plant. 
r
e
d
u
c
e
r
e
c
y
c
l
e
r
e
n
e
w
fig 9: sagitator adding prawn shells to the drying tower  
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
47
46
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
2017
2018
2019
2020
resource utilisation of the influx of raw  
materials to the processing plants
     greenland total         rg group
fig. 10
on the other hand, sales of cod heads from the 
production of live cod (nutaaq) in maniitsoq increased 
significantly in 2020. the cod heads are sold fresh for 
subsequent drying, and for fishing bait. smaller quan-
tities of cod skin, cod stomachs and roe are also sold.
in overall terms, the utilisation of resources in green-
land and by the group is at around the same level as 
in 2019, as figure 10 shows, despite a 4% increase in 
cod landings.
royal greenland is involved in several projects with 
the aim of increasing the utilisation of resources:
- better utilization of the seafood industry’s side-
streams also called waseabi, is a four-year eu project 
that is headed by the national food institute under 
the technical university of denmark (dtu). the aim of 
the project is to develop methods and technologies to 
utilise side-streams for new products such as proteins, 
minerals and other high-tech products. see https://
www.waseabi.eu/. the project focuses on residual cod 
resources, and royal greenland delivers raw materials 
for the sub-projects.
- cooperation with kvalvik bait  - development of fish 
paste and fish meal for use as bait, and extraction 
of protein and oil from crab shells. royal greenland 
has acquired an interest in kvalvik bait, which utilises 
residual products. crab shells in particular are interes-
ting, since they give the bait a good odour. 
- aqualeather, with the aim of processing fish skin into 
tanned leather. the project was supported by the green 
development and demonstration programme (gudp) 
in denmark. the project involved trials with dyeing 
smoked greenland halibut skin as a new resource, 
but unfortunately, smoked skin is not suitable for the 
tanning process. the project was completed in 2020. 
outlook for the coming years
in 2021-2022, royal greenland expects to be able 
to commercialise several new products based on 
residual side-stream materials, such as prawn shells 
for production of prawn meal and residual products on 
the m/tr sisimiut trawler. 
environmental resources
energy and climate:
ocean-going trawlers account for the largest share 
of the group's energy consumption. they consume 
energy during navigation, fishing (at great depths), 
processing and freezing onboard. royal greenland 
exclusively uses marine gas oil, as recommended for 
arctic regions. the sulphur content is around 30 times 
lower than for the heavy fuel oil normally used, and 
acidification and the occurrence of black particles are 
reduced. on investing in new vessels, it is sought to 
reduce fossil oil consumption by using electrical, rather 
than hydraulic winches, for example.
electricity and district heating for royal greenland's 
processing plants are delivered by nukissiorfiit, (the 
greenland energy company) from their local supply 
facilities. gas and oil are also purchased directly, for 
combustion at the processing plants, where necessary. 
around half of the onshore energy consumption in 
greenland is delivered as electricity from the utility 
company. of this consumption, renewable hydro-
power-based energy accounted for 57% of electricity 
consumption in 2020, equivalent to one third of the 
total energy consumption. the processing plants in 
ilulissat, sisimiut, narssaq and nuuk all receive hydro-
power-based energy. royal greenland has the greatest 
total energy consumption at the two prawn factories 
in ilulissat and sisimiut. 
risks
the greatest risk on using larger volumes of energy 
based on fossil fuel is the emission of co2 equivalents 
to the atmosphere, which affects global warming. 
extreme weather conditions and impacts on biomass 
and fish species' growth patterns can already be seen 
in arctic regions. royal greenland will do what it can 
to prevent a further increase in global warming and its 
consequential effects, locally and globally. 
opportunities and goals
since ships account for the greatest energy consump-
tion, specific goals have been set for them. during 
the next few years, royal greenland wishes to reduce 
consumption significantly, with the ambition of a re-
duction by one fourth in 2030, on a comparable basis. 
to achieve this, more efficient energy consumption 
is required, and, to a greater extent, every fisheries 
activity should be planned on the basis of energy con-
sumption. increasing fish volumes per fisheries activity 
will reduce energy consumption per tonne fished. the 
introduction of triple trawl, as on the newest prawn 
trawler, avataq, may also be a more efficient fishing 
method, by reducing fishing time and streamlining 
fisheries. 
our goals for 2022:
->  continued reduction of energy consumption per 
tonne of end-product in the group by around 5 % 
per annum. this means that we aim for maximum 
consumption of 2,300 kwh/tonne of end-product.
->  reduce our climate footprint by converting oil-
based plants to electricity, based on renewable 
environmental resources.
->  pursue the international maritime organization’s 
target for reduction of bunker oil consumption. roy-
al greenland does not have a specific goal for 2022
ambition for 2030:
->  continued reduction of energy consumption, with 
a total reduction for the group of around 30 % per 
tonne of end-product, compared to 2018.
->  reduction of the ships' climate footprint in 2030, by 
25 % per tonne of volumes fished.
actions and results
energy consumption at the individual factories and 
vessels is monitored on the basis of monthly reports. 
in addition, at least once a year the group's total 
energy consumption is compiled. reducing energy 
consumption is always in focus for newbuilding and 
maintenance tasks.
figure 11 presents energy consumption for the 2017-
2020 period. as shown, energy consumption rose 
during 2020. the increase is particularly significant in 
cuxhaven, as a consequence of the relocation of the 
facility in aalborg to cuxhaven. as from 2019, energy 
consumption per tonne of end-product concerns all 
ships under royal greenland's management. previous-
ly, only wholly-owned ships were included. together 
with the change in fishing patterns, this explains the 
increase from 2019 to 2020.
climate footprint
in 2020, royal greenland determined the group's 
climate footprint in scope 1 and scope 2. scope 1 
is royal greenland's direct consumption of energy 
resources and related co2 emissions, while scope 2 
concerns indirect emissions via purchased power and 
district heating.
the emissions total approximately 100,000 tonnes of 
co2 equivalents, of which approximately 70% origi-
nate from large vessels in particular. 
co2 emissions from vessels reflect variations in 
the vessels' fishing patterns, such as inshore and 
ocean-going fishing, and benthic and surface fishing. 
as figure 13 shows, pelagic vessels with surface 
fishing are the most energy-efficient.
a small increase in emissions can be seen for dem-
ersal and pelagic vessels, which is due to adjustment 
of the fishing pattern. the emission of tonnes of co2 
per tonne of volume fished for the new trawlers, m/
tr sisimiut and m/tr avataq, reflects a decrease in 
oil consumption and thereby emissions. this is due, 
among other things, to electrically-powered winches. 
the vessels are also subject to energy optimisation 
based on the latest technology.
energy consumption - kwh/tonnes finished goods 
     
     grl factories        trawlers        
     rg group average
8.000
7.000
6.000
5.000
4.000
3.000
2.000
1.000
0
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
fig. 11: energy consumption in the group and for greenland. 
figur 12: co2e emissions from the group's activities.
royal greenland co2e emissions in 
     
     scope 1         scope 2
co2e/t catch
     
     2018        2019       2020
2
1,5
1
0,5
0
prawn and
benthic fishing 
trawlers,
longline, offshore
coastal vessels
(trawlers, skiffs,
wellboat)
pelagic
vessels
fig. 13: co2e emissions from the group's vessels. 
87%
13%
in 2021-2022, 
royal greenland 
expects to be able 
to commercialise 
several new 
products based 
on residual side-
stream materials
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
49
48
future outlook
the replacement of the trawler fleet, including a new 
m/tr nataarnaq, to be delivered at the end of 2021, 
will further reduce energy consumption. 
climate footprint in product chains
unfortunately, it is not possible to definitively calculate 
the climate footprint per kg of end-product. several 
methods can be used, and therefore royal greenland 
is involved in an eu project to determine product 
environmental footprint (pef) rules for fish products, 
of which the calculation of co2 equivalents is part. 
furthermore, in 2020 a master's student was attached 
to the project, with focus on screening three different 
calculation methods, tested on iced prawns. the 
master's thesis showed that the three methods 
do not yield significantly different results and that 
iced prawns from ilulissat, up to and including retail 
packing in aalborg, have a footprint of 5.1-6.0 kg of 
co2e/kg prawns, depending on the method selected. 
the result is lower than the typical figures for prawn in 
available databases, which do not take direct account 
of our specific value chain.
fresh water 
fresh water of good quality is an important resource 
for all royal greenland production units. water may be 
part of a product, a means of transport during produc-
tion, and a means to clean a workplace.
in royal greenland's production units, fresh water 
may originate from surface water, groundwater or 
sea water. fresh water is delivered by nukissiorfiit, 
(the greenland energy company) and local utility 
companies. at some geographical locations in green-
land, fresh water is in short supply, and fresh water is 
produced via a reverse osmosis (ro) system.
risks
the greatest risk for royal greenland is a lack of fresh 
water for production. at some locations, the proces-
sing plant is the town or settlement's largest water 
consumer. prawn factories are the entities that con-
sume most water, but they are situated at locations 
with ample fresh water supplies.
opportunities and goals
to counter any shortage of fresh water, regular 
meetings are held with nukissiorfiit (the greenland 
energy company), in order to coordinate changes in 
fish production and drinking water supplies.
in recent years we have worked on the purification of 
sea water to drinking water quality. this has yield-
ed some good results, but we are still waiting for 
permission from the greenlandic authorities to use the 
purified water in fish and shellfish production.
our goals for 2022: 
->  reduce consumption at the group's processing 
plant by around 5% per year, to an average of 35 
m3 per tonne of end-product
->  development of production of fresh water from sea 
water in towns and settlements with a shortage of 
fresh water 
ambition for 2030:
-> total reduction of 20% from 2018 
-> a stable water resource of drinking water quality
actions and results
by exercising due diligence and in dialogue with the 
utility company, there are now good opportunities 
for coordination of production and local fresh water 
supplies. in the longer term, there is focus on our own 
purification of sea water.
royal greenland continuously monitors fresh water 
consumption in greenland and at group level.
as figure 14 shows, water consumption per tonne of 
end-product has increased from the previous year, 
which is due in particular to increased processing in 
greenland. the more the fish is processed, the greater 
the water consumption, since all sub-processes require 
water for internal transport, storage, and cleaning 
of equipment and premises. at royal greenland, the 
prawn factories account for the highest consumption, 
since peeling prawns requires large volumes of water.
future outlook
in 2021, royal greenland expects to achieve approval 
of a licence to clean seawater for use in fish process-
ing, which will eliminate the risk of a shortage of 
water. our aim is to work specifically with the towns 
and settlements where fresh water is in short supply. 
this will also make it possible to increase the level to 
which fish is processed in the settlements, thereby 
creating new employment.
water consumption - m3 water/tonnes finished goods
     grl factories        rg group average
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
fig. 14: water consumption in the group and at the production 
units in greenland, measured as m3/tonnes of end-product.
paper, cardboard and plastic
the environment and climate policy also concerns the 
recirculation of packaging and plastic materials in pro-
duction, and greater use of renewable resources. this 
applies in particular to paper, cardboard and plastic. 
risks 
to a great extent, plastic is produced on the basis of 
finite fossil materials. there is also often discarded 
packaging, gill nets, fish boxes and other materials in 
towns and settlements. the risk on leaving discarded 
or lost fishing gear in the sea is that this can con-
tribute to ghost fishing. discarded trawl nets contain 
plastic, which the sea can break down into microplas-
tic, with a serious adverse effect on the sea's natural 
resources.
the eu has adopted a directive which requires all 
plastic to be recyclable by 2030. under the directive, 
fisheries-related items account for 27% of all marine 
waste. royal greenland gives this directive its full 
support.
opportunities and goals
royal greenland wishes to increase reuse and recy-
cling in its activities. recipients of used plastic can 
produce plastic granulate, which can be turned into 
new plastic items, although there are still some plastic 
elements that cannot be recycled. plastic that does 
not consist of monomaterials is not recyclable. 
today, our paper and cardboard are already made from 
fsc-certified materials (forest for all – forever).
our goals for 2022:
plastic in production and fisheries:
->  fish tubs made from the monomaterial pe/pe, 
rather than polyethylene(pe)/polyurethane(pur) 
->  used fish boxes and tubs are collected and granu-
lated for recycling
->  fish trawl nets and gill nets are collected, processed 
and recycled
packaging:
->  minimum 85% of royal greenland's plastic packag-
ing comprises recyclable monomaterials
->  all cardboard and paper is fsc-certified, or the 
equivalent
ambition for 2030:
->  full reuse of used trawl and gill nets owned by 
royal greenland
->  all packaging is made from recyclable materials
actions and results
a major project has been launched concerning pack-
aging and plastic used in fisheries and production. in 
2020, there was focus on developing tools to quantify 
types of plastic used in packaging, among other things 
by building up databases with actual weight units, in 
order to assess the task, follow up on measurements, 
and be able to document compliance with eu require-
ments. production trials have also been run to replace 
multi-layer plastic in packaging with mono-layer 
plastic, while retaining product quality. this has been 
successful for several products, and is expected to be 
implemented in 2021. 
positive results have also been achieved with large 
bulk packaging, whereby multi-layer packaging com-
prising paper and plastic is replaced with mono-layer 
polypropylene (pp) packaging.
tubs and boxes are subject to equivalent initiatives. 
in 2020 it was decided that royal greenland would 
only procure fish tubs made from monomaterials. in 
2020, more than 250 pe/pur tubs were sold for repair 
and reuse. they were replaced with tubs made from 
the monomaterial pe, as well as metal tanks with an 
extended lifetime. 
figur 15. pe/pe tub for production in greenland 
outlook for the coming year
in 2021, more multi-layer packaging will be replaced 
with mono-layer materials. in greenland, collection of 
used fish boxes, tubs, gill nets and trawl nets will be 
organised, so that they can be recirculated.  
sdg contribution
by working to achieve better utilisation of the fish 
resources, reduce fossil fuels, and increase the 
utilisation of sea water and the recirculation of paper, 
cardboard and plastic, we will contribute to achieving 
sustainable development goal12 .
the most important targets are:
12.2: by 2030, achieve the sustainable management 
and efficient use of natural resources.
12.3: by 2030, halve per capita global food waste 
at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food 
losses along production and supply chains, including 
post-harvest losses.
12.5: by 2030, substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.
12.6: encourage companies, especially large and trans-
national companies, to adopt sustainable practices 
and to integrate sustainability information into their 
reporting cycle.
12 https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal12
royal greenland 
is involved in 
an eu project to 
determine product 
environmental 
footprint (pef) 
rules for fish 
products, of which 
the calculation of 
co2 equivalents  
is part
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
51
50
at royal greenland we have a great responsibility to 
create as many commercially and socially worthwhile 
local workplaces as possible. this requires a focus 
on job creation and on the physical and psychosocial 
working environment.
working environment  
in 2020, we added an important new policy, the 
working environment policy, to the series of policies in 
the social area under the sustainability programme. as 
a company with several hazardous workplaces in fish-
eries and production, it is important to stay focused 
and be aware of new and existing risks, and to take 
effective action should an adverse event occur.  
risks
for some work roles, fisheries can be physically very 
demanding. the work might involve lifting blocks of 
frozen fish, working at a filleting machine and moving 
boxes, and in fisheries, hauling the filled trawl nets 
onto the ship's deck. filleting furthermore involves 
using sharp knives. 
there is a greater risk of occupational injuries if 
working conditions, training and protective equipment 
are not optimised. it is the local manager's responsi-
bility to ensure safe conditions, and that the policy is 
observed. local managers are naturally supported by 
group functions in the performance of this task.
for several years, statutory workplace assessments 
(apv) have taken place, both ashore and at sea. this 
has provided greater knowledge of critical working 
conditions. the three most critical working-environ-
ment related conditions at the processing facilities 
are (i) heavy lifting, (ii) cold and draughts, and (iii) 
slippery floors.
occupational injury reports show that most injuries 
are the result of falling and stumbling accidents in 
processing facilities and on vessels, while heavy lifting 
and operation of machines also present challenges in 
land-based work.
opportunities and goals
royal greenland is a geographically diversified 
company that operates in many countries, with various 
different working environment traditions. we can 
therefore see great opportunities to create a simple, 
overall working environment system for the entire 
group. this will make it possible to set up uniform 
procedures and create tools that can be adapted local-
ly. transparency and a uniform approach to this work 
across the group will be ensured.
education and training will support the focus on the 
working environment, and strengthen and enhance 
many work functions. 
the goal is to continuously improve working conditions 
in sometimes cold and wet working environments. 
this applies to royal greenland's employees, but also 
to our suppliers' working conditions. 
our goals for 2022:
->  opbygning af et enkelt og velfungerende arbejds-
miljøstyringssystem i sammenhæng med det ydre miljø
ambition for 2030:
->  build up a simple, well-functioning working envi-
ronment management system, in harmony with the 
external environment
actions and results
every year, occupational injury data is collected and 
evaluated, and relevant statistics are prepared. in 
2020, managers in greenland received training in 
correct reporting of occupational injuries, and were 
updated on employees' rights concerning injuries and 
possible compensation.
as part of royal greenland's sustainable development 
goal # 12 responsible footprint, efforts are being made 
to reduce the consumption of plastic and to ensure that 
as much as possible of the plastic used is recyclable.
today, the vast majority of royal greenland’s retail range 
is packed in plastic bags. these bags are made of one or 
more layers of plastic with different qualities, depending 
on what type of product the bag is designed for. for 
many products, a high barrier quality is essential to avoid 
air from seeping into the bag, whereas other bags must 
be resistant to sharp objects to avoid cuts during the 
packing process of frozen products.
for plastic to be suitable for recycling it can usually only 
consist of one type of plastic or so-called polymer.
in the chart below it is illustrated how different 
polymers and combinations of these perform in terms 
of recyclability. as stated in the chart, it is a determining 
factor that the polymers are compatible. non-compatible 
polymers are not separable in the recycling process and 
are therefore only fit to include in a combustion process.
for royal greenland, the first step towards reducing 
plastic consumption within retail is to make sure all 
retail packaging are made from compatible polymers. 
with this choice, we ensure that our retail packaging is 
as recyclable as possible.
during 2020, numerous of royal greenland's packaging 
has been registered in relation to the content of plastic 
and the degree of recyclability. because of this, an 
implementation plan has been made for all product 
categories and factory plants with a plan to achieve 
that at least 80% of the plastic in our retail packaging is 
recyclable by the end of 2022.
the journey towards recyclable plastic 
material in packaging
healthy working lives 
we will integrate a working environment and environmental system that addresses the 
physical and psychosocial working environment of all employees, and their well-being.  
we make the same requirements of our suppliers as we make of ourselves.
decent work and
economic growth
 
12 
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
0
reported occupational injuries /100 emp.
     greenland               greenland  (min 1 day's absence) 
     other countries       other countries  (min 1 day's absence)
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
figur 16: number of occupational injuries per 100 employees 
without absence and with minimum one day's absence.
fisheries can involve hazardous work that requires 
protective equipment and safety training
high 
recyclability
recyclability scheme
type of material
single-layer  
multi-layer
mono-material
multi-material
compatible polymers
non-compatible polymers
medium 
recyclability
no  
recyclability
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
✘	 ✘	
✘
	✘	 ✘	 ✘	 ✘	
✘	
✘	 ✘	
✘	 ✘	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
✘	 ✘	
✘	 ✘	 ✘	 ✘	
✘
✘	 ✘	 ✘	 ✘	
✘
		
	
	
	
✘	
✘	 ✘	
✘	 ✘	 ✘	 ✘	
✘
✘	 ✘	 ✘	 ✘	
pet
pp
pe
pe/pe
o-pe/pe
pe/pe evoh
o-pe/pe evoh
opa/pe
opp/pe
pa/pe
pet/pe evoh
pet/pe
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
53
52
in greenland, the number of actual reported injuries 
fell in 2020, and the injury frequency per 100 full-time 
employees (ftes) also fell. 
this year, attention was on the aforementioned critical 
work functions, with special focus on heavy lifting 
at the processing facilities. a new lifting concept in 
conjunction with freezing has been developed, and 
will be tested at two processing facilities in greenland 
in 2021.
to avoid draughts from cold rooms, air sluices at gates 
have been tested. this has yielded positive results. 
in addition, managers in settlements have received 
training in working environment issues, and in 
conjunction with a technical review of the facilities, 
protective equipment was reviewed and any deficien-
cies were rectified.
finally, a task force has been established that, with 
technical assistance, will undertake continuous im-
provements to machines and similar equipment, so as 
to correct any irregularities as soon as possible.
concerning the psychosocial working environment, 
a working group has been appointed to ensure that 
selected local contact persons are trained in personal 
counselling on private matters, should a colleague 
so require. if additional expertise is required, further 
assistance will be available via the employee's super-
visor and hr.
future outlook
a health & safety consultant in greenland has been 
added to the organisation, in order to strengthen 
this initiative and launch a working environment and 
environmental management system. there is also 
growing awareness among facility managers of both 
the physical and psychosocial working environment, 
and we therefore expect even greater commitment in 
the coming years.
job creation and diversity  
at group level, the number of employees converted to 
full-time employees (ftes) is at the same level as in 
2019, notwithstanding covid-19. at the processing fa-
cility in cuxhaven, there are also 40 full-time positions 
based on temporary contracts.
employees in greenland account for 65% of the 
group's total number of employees.
employee distribution in 2019
     greenland          other countries
no. of employees
     greenland        denmark        other countries
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
2,533
972
198
1,363
2,228
536
205
1,487
2,200
569
199
1,432
2,230
613
165
1,452
g
r
e
e
n
l
a
n
d
 
-
 
6
5
%
 
 
o
t
h
e
r
 
c
o
u
n
t
r
i
e
s
 
-
 
3
5
%
fig.17: number of full-time employees and employee breakdown in 2020. 
risks 
during the high season from april to october, there is 
a great need for many employees to process the fish 
and shellfish landed. the greatest risk is thus a lack 
of manpower when the fish is ready for landing and 
processing. this is a well-known challenge.
opportunities and goals
in recent years, part of the solution has been to bring in 
foreign manpower during high season, and on a more 
permanent basis. employment under the nordjobb ex-
change programme in towns and settlements of green-
land has been a great success. under the nordjobb 
programme, young students from the nordic countries 
can sign up to work for a longer period. more long-term 
contracts have usually been with chinese employees. 
in 2019, we analysed the gender breakdown at our 
production facilities and could see potential benefits 
from adapting the workplaces to additional employee 
groups, including women and young people. this will 
create opportunities to expand the recruitment basis 
and also establish good working conditions based on 
greater diversity. this is still an issue in focus.
our goals for 2022:
->  policy and plan for the adjustment of the labour 
supply to include all workforce groups, including 
seniors, young people aged 15-18, disabled em-
ployees, etc. in relevant job functions.
->  establishment of specifications and goals for 
recruitment of external employees, including a 
minimum housing standard.
ambition for 2030:
->  full implementation of working opportunities for 
special workforce groups.
actions and results  
during 2020 it was necessary to supplement local 
manpower with young people taking summer jobs 
(the nordjobb exchange programme), and people 
of other nationalities (primarily chinese) who work 
at our largest factories in greenland under two-year 
contracts. with the help of a trained chinese hr expert 
who is resident in greenland, the chinese personnel 
engaged under these contracts have settled in well 
and take part in the work on an equal footing with 
other permanent employees. recruitment took place 
around qingdao, where royal greenland's chinese 
subsidiary and business partners are located. this em-
ployment concerns single people, as well as couples. 
they see this as an opportunity to earn money for 
their future lives back in china. some of them have 
settled in so well in greenland that they have extend-
ed their contracts for longer than originally planned.
future outlook
royal greenland expects that we can offer women, 
seniors and young people a workplace that takes 
greater account of physical challenges, and thereby 
creates equal opportunities for everyone, irrespective 
of age and gender. 
gender breakdown of the senior management 
according to royal greenland's gender policy, the 
members of the supervisory board elected by the an-
nual general meeting must comprise equal numbers of 
male and female members. as in previous years, the 
elected members of the supervisory board comprise 
three women and three men. the members elected by 
the employees are three men. 
in accordance with the policy for the under-repre-
sented gender, the goal for the senior management 
is set at 26%. the senior management comprises the 
three levels immediately below the supervisory board, 
including skippers of seafaring vessels, and comprises 
97 people. in 2020, the under-represented gender 
accounted for 14% of the senior management. 
the goal in accordance with the policy was not 
achieved, but including the next management level 
on land, the under-represented gender accounts for a 
total of 26%, which matches the goal. 
including all marine officers, including affiliated and 
associated companies, women account for a total of 
10%, out of an overall group totalling 371 people. the 
group of officers on vessels accounts for around one 
half of the employees in the group. working at sea is 
traditionally and historically a male occupation, but 
thanks to modern equipment and good facilities on 
the new vessels, in future the role of marine officer 
will be suitable for both men and women.
future outlook
for several years, royal greenland has not achieved 
the goal of 26% women at senior management level. 
in future, extra efforts must be made to achieve more 
women in senior management.
ethical supply chain management, 
human rights and due diligence  
royal greenland's supplier code of conduct (scoc) is 
an important document to ensure compliance with 
current standards drawn up by the ilo, imo and un. 
we operate in value chains across national borders, 
legislation and cultures, and scoc will ensure a mini-
mum set of rules for our suppliers, based on interna-
tionally recognised standards. wherever we trade, and 
whoever it is with, we have an obligation to ensure 
compliance with human rights and employee rights, as 
well as environmental conditions, and to ensure that 
product traceability requirements are fulfilled. 
number
men
women
managers, cf. the 
policy
97
86%
14%
all managers  
excluding officers 
141
74%
26%
all managers  
including officers 
371
90%
10%
royal greenland 
operates in value 
chains across 
national borders, 
legislation and 
cultures, and 
scoc will ensure 
a minimum set 
of rules for our 
suppliers
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
55
54
the good life – for children 
and adults 
mio – children throughout greenland must know 
their rights
with more than 3,200 employees on the payroll during 2020, 
spread across towns and settlements in greenland, royal 
greenland commands a good position to reach out to many 
families.   
this is a perfect match for the work of the children’s rights 
organisation mio, which works to raise awareness of the un 
convention on the rights of the child. 
mio is focused on disseminating knowledge of children's rights 
on many platforms, including the media and schools. since royal 
greenland is the country's largest workplace, it can reach even 
further and deeper in the dialogue with both children and adults 
about children's rights. it is also possible to disseminate very 
specific practical tools for everyday family life, raising children 
and understanding children’s values and well-being. 
together we create the good life
this is the heading of the cooperation agreement that royal 
greenland and paarisa entered in 2020. 
paarisa is a unit of the greenlandic agency for preventive 
healthcare and social conditions, which works to promote 
healthcare within the social and healthcare field.
this is not the first time that royal greenland and paarisa have 
worked together. previously, a joint cookbook was published and 
in 2018, the two parties produced a tv-kitchen programme for 
famliies. in the new cooperation agreement, there will be focus 
on disseminating knowledge of healthy choices throughout 
greenland, at the many locations where royal greenland has 
catch handling, production and offices. 
sulisa+ courses go online
every year, a large number of courses are normally held 
under the auspices of the royal greenland academy, 
including courses in the sulisa+ programme, which focuses 
on nurturing a good workplace culture and everyday life. the 
programme is rolled out across several production units and 
both management and employee courses are very popular.
employees at the factory in paamiut started a series of 
sulisa+ courses in the spring of 2020, as a good programme 
that was well received. 
the outbreak of covid-19 put an end to the next courses, but 
the disappointment at having to stop before they had got 
off to a proper start led the hr department and the factory 
management to decide to continue online. 
in 2020, more than 70 employees thus attended online 
courses with trainers from nuuk. reviews of private finances, 
employee rights, pension rights and joint physical team 
exercises were run successfully on a remote basis. 
mind your own business – or can we help you?
with financial support from three funds, mind your own 
business, myob, works to motivate young boys from 
underprivileged backgrounds to work with entrepreneurship 
and launch their own micro companies. myob was established 
in greenland in 2019 and in 2020, royal greenland entered 
into a partnership with the organisation.  
three business mentors from royal greenland are helping to 
advise and motivate young boys who, through mind your own 
business, will hopefully be inspired and motivated to gains 
jobs and education. 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
57
56
risks
according to our risk analysis based on official assess-
ments (human development index, environmental 
index and corruption index), royal greenland only 
purchases a small volume of goods from suppliers 
in countries where there is a relatively great risk of 
breaches of human rights and employee rights, as well 
as corruption. nonetheless, human rights, anti-corrup-
tion and environmental measures are included in the 
supplier code of conduct. according to the supplier's 
risk profile, control measures are differentiated in our 
due diligence and supply chain management system. 
our own internal assessments are updated with bsci 
(business social compliance initiative) assessments.
opportunities and goals
royal greenland's supplier management focuses 
on suppliers from high-risk countries. today, many 
of our suppliers are audited in accordance with the 
recognised smeta standard, which gives significant 
insights into suppliers' environmental and working 
environment conditions, and greater security for 
royal greenland. we wish to continuously improve 
our suppliers' performance by requiring more of our 
suppliers to undergo a smeta audit. based on our 
current experience, we have set goals for 2022 and 
ambitions for 2030. 
our goals for 2022:
->  third-party audits of resources and end-product 
suppliers from high-risk countries, as a minimum 
every second year.
ambition for 2030:
->  third-party audits of resources, ingredients and 
packaging suppliers from high-risk countries, as a 
minimum every second year.
actions and results  
as figure 18 shows, in the last four years we have 
had close to 100 % response from and approval of 
suppliers from high-risk countries. in the mandatory 
self-evaluation for suppliers in these countries, there 
is particular focus on issues concerning the health and 
safety of employees, as well as child labour, modern 
slavery and the environment. each supplier is scored 
according to a scale and threshold value. if the score 
is too low, it is assessed whether there is a need for 
further dialogue, launch of an action plan, and accept-
ance of the cooperation.
on an annual basis, a declaration concerning modern 
slavery and human trafficking is prepared and presen-
ted, together with clarification of our due diligence in 
this area.
the number of suppliers is highest and most dynamic 
with regard to suppliers from low-risk countries. the 
response rate is equivalently low, however, although 
this is required to be addressed within the first half-
year of any commercial relationship. it is thus possible 
to transact a purchase without prior acceptance of 
the supplier. ongoing replacement of suppliers from 
low-risk countries will thus automatically give a lower 
response rate, since there is a delay of up to six 
months in the self-evaluation.
royal greenland code of conduct
internally, everyone at royal greenland must be 
informed of their rights and good business practice. 
this takes place by distributing the code of conduct 
to new employees in offices and production facilities. 
should an employee discover a breach of the code 
of conduct, a complaint procedure (a whistleblower 
scheme) exists that enables the employee to make an 
official complaint about the conduct while still being 
assured protection. 
outlook for the coming years
our supply chain management system has been 
implemented for several years and experience has 
been positive. the system will also be introduced in 
the newest elements of the group. in addition, we will 
impose tighter requirements for suppliers of resources 
and end-products in high-risk countries, so that they 
can be smeta audited.
anti-corruption  
royal greenland trades in a global market, with many 
different stakeholders. it is therefore important that 
relevant employees are aware of the risks which their 
jobs may entail. at royal greenland we do not tolerate 
any form of corrupt behaviour. this might be tax eva-
sion, money laundering, embezzlement or bribery, as 
described in the anti-corruption policy of 2014.
our goal for 2022:
->  ensure that our employees are aware of the risks 
and consequences of corruption
->  prevention of complicity in corruption
->  establishment of an extended whistleblower 
scheme for royal greenland 
ambition for 2030:
->  the whistleblower scheme is still active, possibly 
extended to include partly-owned companies
120%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
supplier approvals in 2020
     low risk        medium risk        high risk
fig. 18: status of response to self-evaluation and  
recognition of the rg supplier code of conduct.
actions and results  
in accordance with royal greenland’s anti-corruption 
policy and procedures, at least every other year em-
ployees who are exposed to risk must receive training 
in dilemmas that are adapted to the employees’ every-
day work and national context. in total, 228 risk-ex-
posed employees took this training in 2018-2019, with 
a response rate of 99%. no training took place in 2020, 
but it will be held in 2021 for all employees selected.
it has also been decided to implement an expand-
ed whistleblower scheme, to be launched in 2021. 
the scheme will apply to all of royal greenland's 
100%-owned activities and will be managed via an 
external law firm. the scheme will include: econom-
ic crime, including corruption and irregularities in 
connection with auditing, environmental pollution, 
infringement of employee and human rights, including 
child labour and forced labour, and infringement of food 
safety regulations. the scheme will be evaluated after 
one year. 
sdg-contribution
by focusing on employees at our own factories and at 
suppliers, we will contribute to healthy working lives. 
employees are a very important part of the compa-
ny and we will contribute to achieving sustainable 
development goal 83  by continuing to engage with 
our employees. 
the targets we contribute to achieving are:
88.5: by 2030, achieve full and productive employ-
ment and decent work for all women and men, includ-
ing for young people and persons with disabilities, and 
equal pay for work of equal value.
8.7: take immediate and effective measures to erad-
icate forced labour, end modern slavery and human 
trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination 
of the worst forms of child labour, including recruit-
ment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child 
labour in all its forms.
8.8: protect labour rights and promote safe and secure 
working environments for all workers, including 
migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and 
those in precarious employment.
3https://www.sdgs.un.org/goals/goal8
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
59
58
60
40
20
0
apprentices/trainees and students
     no. of apprentices/trainees in rg (grl)
     no. of apprentices/trainees in rg (group)
      short-cycle higher vocational  
education rg (grl)
      short-cycle higher vocational  
education rg (group)
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
fig. 19:development and status for numbers of trainees, 
apprentices and students attached to royal greenland.
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
royal greenland academy course activities
     participants in rga
     course days
     courses
 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
fig. 21:p articipants and course days for royal greenland 
academy in 2017-2020.
education in greenland
we take responsibility for competence development and education in greenland’s society 
through specific training programmes, in close cooperation with educational institutions 
and via our own royal greenland academy.
quality
eductaion
800
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
participants
participants
participants
course days
course days
course days
courses
courses
courses
royal greenland
academy
courses by/
at other venues
statutory 
courses
fig. 20: course activities for royal greenland employees, 2017-2020
in greenland, young people do not pursue higher 
education as a matter of course. today, only half of a 
youth cohort in lower secondary schools in greenland 
will achieve higher education. the ambition is for more 
young people to pursue higher education, in order to 
strengthen greenland's prosperity and employment. 
this applies in particular to the technical and maritime 
educational programmes. royal greenland contributes 
actively to motivating young people to enrol for higher 
education, and takes great responsibility for and exerts 
influence on achieving more students in the fisheries 
sector, and that they complete their course of educa-
tion. royal greenland wishes to fulfil its responsibility 
for educational programmes' competence building in 
line with greenland's opportunities and ambitions.
building competences in  
greenlandic society
sustainable development goal 4 concerns creating 
equal opportunities for education and education of 
high quality. at royal greenland, we convert this 
sustainable development goal into a wish for far 
more education for those with the least education. we 
also wish to continue to upgrade the qualifications of 
our managers internally, and to support apprentices, 
trainees, cadets and technical students to a greater 
extent than before.   
risks
royal greenland is the largest company in green-
land and needs many skilled employees at all levels 
and within many different trades and professions. 
education is an important basis for creating new jobs, 
but also for meeting the needs of society, including 
requirements in the fisheries industry.
opportunities and goals
royal greenland is dedicated to contributing to build-
ing up expertise in our society by offering trainees and 
apprentices practical training positions under short-, 
intermediate- and long-cycle higher education.
our goals for 2022:
->  training of apprentices and trainees for the fisheries 
sector minimum 50 employees per year
->  4qaqisa lower secondary school exchange pro-
gramme at factories and facilities 
ambition for 2030:
->  maintain a minimum of 50 trainees and apprentices 
per year
->  qaqisa is the standard procedure
actions and results
at group level there were 48 apprentices and trainees 
in 2020, of whom 39 were based in greenland. in 
total, 13 apprentices, trainees or students completed 
their course of education.
particular measures are taken to support students 
from greenland who are taking vocational higher 
education programmes. in 2020, 16 students from 
greenland associated with royal greenland were tak-
ing programmes in such fields as process engineering 
and fishing technology, or were aspiring engineer 
officers or deck officers.
royal greenland thus had 64 apprentices, trainees and stu-
dents attached to the company, of whom 55 in greenland. 
each year, the numbers of trainees, apprentices and 
students are evaluated. training initiatives are consid-
ered regularly by the steering group, and hr assesses 
how royal greenland can support more students’ 
educational careers. 
future outlook
education in greenland is an important element of 
our sustainability programme, and we will continue 
our efforts to upgrade the competence levels of our 
employees and the apprentices,  
royal greenland academy
a large proportion of royal greenland’s production 
employees are unskilled. these employees’ skills and 
competences are developed continuously with profes-
sional courses offered by educational institutions, or 
as internal courses held by royal greenland academy. 
the academy coordinates such initiatives as ”sulisa+”, 
which will contribute to achieving a good workplace 
culture, with focus on well-being and job satisfaction. 
there are also a number of statutory courses that are 
administered via royal greenland academy.
risks
competence and motivation are important aspects 
of the day-to-day work. royal greenland academy 
has been active for many years and is still important 
in building up employees’ skills and competences on 
a broad basis. a lack of skills would present both a 
financial and professional risk for the company.
opportunities and goals
royal greenland academy gives employees oppor-
tunities for professional and personal development 
via tailored courses. the academy offers ambitious 
training and further educational initiatives to ensure 
that royal greenland is always developing skilled new 
managers, and which motivate individuals to continue 
to do their best for the company.
our goals for 2022:
->  “sulisa+” management development at selected 
factories and trawlers in greenland
->  a minimum of 20 % of the employees annually 
attend royal greenland academy courses
->  courses for local fishermen among royal green-
land's suppliers in a minimum of five towns
ambition for 2030:
->  management development takes place within a 
fixed system
->  a minimum of 20% of the employees annually 
attend royal greenland academy courses
->  courses for local fishermen are a fixed programme 
as part of royal greenland academy
actions and results
in 2020, there was greater focus on employees' 
personal development, both at the workplace and in 
their private lives. in all three sulisa+ courses, trauma 
therapy and empowerment have been part of the 
programme, which has given employees tools to 
discuss and handle personal challenges, whether they 
are related to their professional or private lives. 
in 2020, royal greenland academy was challenged 
by the covid-19 restrictions, which prevented several 
planned courses from being held. this is evident from 
the number of courses held, which regrettably was 
fewer than planned. using online platforms, such as 
teams and zoom, it was possible to experiment with 
virtual courses, and this will continue to be used in 
2021, to the extent that this is necessary and possible. 
royal greenland academy will continue to be devel-
oped in 2021, with competence-building initiatives 
and projects as a significant element of the annual 
calendar. 
outlook for the coming years
royal greenland wishes to increase competence 
building in greenland, for example by selecting skilled 
employees who will contribute to achieving this goal. 
this takes place by training key persons via a train 
the trainer course. the course is expected to start 
up in september 2021, with experienced, competent 
employees being selected to participate. on this basis, 
more key persons will be able to train their colleagues 
in different areas. train the trainer will make it possi-
ble for training to take place locally, and for trainers to 
have the best conditions to pass on knowledge, while 
in the longer term this will reduce the need to use 
external instructors. 
in recent years, there has been greater focus on training 
managers under the sulisa+ programme, but further 
initiatives are required. in 2021, a special course for 
royal greenland managers will be launched, with a 
more in-depth, development-oriented agenda. this will 
ensure that managers are more robust and motivated 
to work on developing their managerial skills, and 
also to set specific goals for their own development. 
a management team from a specific factory will form 
a pilot project, and the experience gained from this 
process will provide the basis for further development 
of the management course. the course will run under 
the auspices of royal greenland academy. 
royal greenland 
is the largest 
company in 
greenland and 
needs many skilled 
employees at all 
levels and within 
many different 
trades and 
professions
courses for production employees in greenland
     2017        2018        2019        2020
3 qaqisa is a cooperation initiative 
between schools and industry with the 
aim of motivating lower secondary school 
leavers to choose a course of education 
on a qualified basis. via qaqisa, com-
panies contribute to motivating, helping 
and guiding the young people who are to 
be an active part of the workforce.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
61
60
royal greenland academy will continue to be devel-
oped in 2021, with competence-building initiatives 
and projects as a significant element of the annual 
calendar. 
there are also equivalent course activities in other 
parts of royal greenland, such as at the processing 
facilities in newfoundland.
sdg contribution
royal greenland undertakes the ethical responsibility 
of training and educating its employees and holding 
courses to strengthen individual personal develop-
ment. royal greenland undertakes the responsibility 
of continuing to train employees throughout their 
working lives.
sdg targets5 will contribute to:
4.3: by 2030, ensure equal access for all women and 
men to affordable and quality technical, vocational 
and tertiary education, including university.
4.4: by 2030, substantially increase the number of 
youth and adults who have relevant skills, including 
technical and vocational skills, for employment, 
decent jobs and entrepreneurship.
5 https://www.sdgs.un.org/goals/goal4
sustainable fishing
2017
2018
2019
2020
goal 2022
ambition
2030
sustainable fisheries and utilisation of resources
share of sustainable species, cf. royal greenland 1
76%
77%
80%
80%
>85%
>95%
share of less sustainable species
24%
22%
20%
20%
<15%
<5%
share of critical species
< 1%
<1%
0%
0%
0%
0%
msc certification of raw materials
46%
52%
56%
57%
60%
>75%
asc and global gap certification of raw materials
2%
<1%
1%
0%
-
-
commercialisation of new species from coastal fisheries
-
-
-
0
1
3
responsible consumption
2017
2018
2019
2020
goal 2022
ambition
2030
utilisation of resources
utilisation of resources, processing plants in greenland2
67%
65%
67%
67%
-
-
utilisation of resources, royal greenland
-
-
-
65%
80% of rg’s  
marine potential
full utilisation of rg’s 
marine potential
energy consumption
energy consumption, all production units and trawlers, gwh3
 249     
 239     
307
399
-
-
royal greenland (kwh/tonnes of end-product)
 2,567     
 2,693     
2,660
3,230
2300 kwh/t fv
total reduction of  
30% from 2018 
greenland processing plants (kwh/tonnes end-product)
 1,413     
 1,560     
 1,350     
 1,560     
-
-
vessels (kwh/tonnes end-product) 4
 7,157     
 6,186     
 4,316     
 4,784     
-
-
co2e-emissions
ghg emissions from vessels, measured in tonnes of co2e/t end-product
prawn and benthic fishing trawlers, longline, offshore5
 - 
 1.65     
 1.72     
 1.78     
 - 
25% reduction of  
from 2018
coastal vessels (trawlers, skiffs, wellboats)5
 - 
 1.20     
 0.86     
 0.85     
 - 
25% reduction of  
from 2018
pelagic vessels
 - 
 0.72     
 0.54     
 0.66     
 - 
25% reduction of  
from 2018
total emissions for royal greenland, scope 1 and scope 2, tonnes6
-
 100,270     
-
25% reduction of  
from 2018
total emissions of ghg, including scope 3, in royal greenland, 
measured in tonnes of co2equivalents
 - 
 - 
 - 
calculation method 
is determined and 
status compiled
product groups' carbon footprint7
 - 
 - 
 - 
method screened in 
2020 for iced prawns
develop and test 
method
communication of 
product groups' 
carbon footprint 
and reduction of 
carbon footprint
water consumption
water consumption, all production units, million m3
2
3
2
3
-
-
royal greenland (m3/tonnes end-product)
32
38
41
46
35
total reduction min. 
20% from 2018
greenland processing plants (m3/tonnes end-product)
36
41
41
49
development of 
seawater resource
stable water 
resource
plastic, paper, cardboard
fish boxes and tubs changed to monomaterials and recycled
 - 
initiated
subject to planning
substitution has 
commenced
full recycling is 
possible
full recycling is 
possible
fish trawls and nets are processed and recycled
 - 
initiated
subject to planning
status quo
reuse/recycling of 
most of the trawl 
nets owned by rg
full recycling of all 
trawl and gill nets 
owned by rg
rg plastic packaging is recyclable8
 - 
 39% 
 41% 
73%
85%
all packaging
paper and cardboard of fsc fibre
 - 
100%
100%
100%
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
63
62
healthy working lives
2017
2018
2019
2020
goal 2022
ambition
2030
number of employees
royal greenland in total
 2,533     
 2,228     
2,200
2,230
-
-
greenland
 1,363     
 1,487     
1,432
1,452
-
-
other countries
 1,170     
 741     
768
778
-
-
greenland, in %
54%
67%
65%
65%
-
-
other countries, in %
46%
33%
35%
35%
-
-
diversity
board of directors (w/m)
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
management9, the under-represented gender, see the gender 
equality policy
13%
15%
14%
14%
26%
26%
management10, the under-represented gender
-
-
27%
26%
-
-
working environment
physical and psychosocial working environment. building up and 
implementing an adapted working environment/environmental 
management system at group level
-
- 
environmental 
procedure is being 
compiled
environmental 
procedure is being 
compiled
fully developed 
system
fully implemented 
and functioning 
working 
environment and 
environmental 
management 
system
adjustment of the labour supply to include women, young 
employees and seniors
-
approximately 
1/3 of production 
employees are 
women
focus on heavy 
lifting, for 
adjustment of the 
labour supply
tests have taken 
place for heavy 
lifting
plan adopted 
for all defined 
working groups 
min. 40% women 
at rg's factories in 
greenland
fully implemented 
procedure
external manpower. define specifications and targets for 
recruitment of external employees, including a minimum standard 
for housing conditions
-
recruitment of 
external manpower 
in accordance with 
legislation
recruitment of 
external manpower 
in accordance with 
legislation  
recruitment of 
external manpower 
in accordance with 
legislation  
targets and 
specifications have 
been determined 
and incorporated
targets and 
specifications are 
fully implemented
employee safety
occupational injuries11 per 100 employees in greenland
 9     
 9     
 10     
 9     
building up and 
implementing an 
adapted working 
environment/
environmental 
management 
system
fully implemented 
and functioning 
working 
environment and 
environmental 
management 
system
occupational injuries3 per 100 employees, other countries
 9     
 8     
 11     
 8     
occupational injuries3 with min. one day of absence per 100 
employees, greenland
 5     
 4     
 5     
 4     
occupational injuries3 with min. one day of absence per 100 
employees, other countries
 2     
 3     
 3     
 3     
employee satisfaction
job satisfaction12, score for royal greenland in greenland, max. 100
 79     
-
81
-
takes place every 
second year
anti-corruption
anti-corruption training, percentage completed  
among selected participants13
 -       
76%
23%
-
training in 2021. 
implementation 
of whistleblower 
scheme
ethical supply chain management
working conditions and environment in the supply chain. require-
ment of third-party certification of raw materials, ingredients and 
packaging suppliers from high-risk countries, as a minimum every 
second year
signature on rg's 
supplier code of 
conduct. suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries complete 
a self-assessment
signature on rg's 
supplier code of 
conduct. suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries complete 
a self-assessment
signature on rg's 
supplier code of 
conduct. suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries complete 
a self-assessment
signature on rg's 
supplier code of 
conduct. suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries complete 
a self-assessment
besides fulfilling 
rg's supply chain 
management 
system, all fish and 
shellfish suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries must be 
third-party audited
besides fulfilling 
rg's supply chain 
management 
system, all fish and 
shellfish suppliers 
from high-risk 
countries must be 
third-party audited
suppliers from high-risk countries14, percentage completed  
among those selected
100%
100%
96%
100%
100%
100%
suppliers from medium-risk countries, percentage completed  
among those selected
100%
100%
98%
79%
95%
100%
suppliers from low-risk countries, percentage completed  
among those selected
59%
65%
66%
57%
60%
75%
1 royal greenland's assessment is based on assessment of the stock, fishing method and management.
2 resource utilisation is calculated as the difference between intake of raw materials and output of end-product. cooking and dripping losses have not been taken into account.
3 in 2019, 2020 incl. ocean-going and coastal vessels owned by rg and associated companies under rg's management (kwh/tonne catch)
4 iin 2019, 2020 incl. ocean-going and coastal vessels owned by rg and associated companies under rg's management (kwh/tonne catch)
5 the english defra database is used as the calculation basis.
6 all departments of the organisation are included in the calculation. publicly recognised databases are used (uk defra 2020) as a basis for calculating co2.
7 iced prawn product screened according to several methods, including iso14067, pas2050 and pef.
8 monomaterials can be recirculated.
9 percentage of the under-represented gender (women) in the management, as defined in the policy (in addition to the board of directors).
10 percentage of the under-represented gender (women) in the top four management levels (in addition to the board of directors).
11 definition: a sudden, unexpected adverse event that results in the registration of personal injury, calculated per 100 employees.
12 the employee satisfaction survey is conducted by an external analysis agency.
13 anti-corruption training takes place as e-learning.
14 suppliers in the system are included when their deliveries in annual terms exceed a fixed minimum level.
education - greenland
2017
2018
2019
2020
goal 2022
ambition
2030
training and education - greenland
rg academy course participants
426
321
815
209
20% of employees
30% of employees
number of rg academy course days
54
107
148
19
number of rg academy courses
23
25
28
10
course participants, other colleges
177
63
80
17
-
-
number of course days, other colleges
82
88
95
95
-
-
number of courses, other colleges
23
5
11
4
-
-
course participants, statutory courses
150
244
294
227
cf. legislation
cf. legislation
number of course days, statutory courses
44
51
191
88
-
-
number of courses, statutory courses
41
24
22
26
-
-
number of course participants in total
753
628
1,189
453
-
-
“sulisa+” management development at selected factories and trawlers 
in greenland
-
initiated
three large 
factories
three large 
factories
performed at 
selected factories
management 
development in a 
fixed system
“qaqisa” lower secondary school exchange programme at all 
factories and facilities in greenland
 - 
planning together 
with csr 
greenland and 
other companies
qaqisa in royal 
greenland is 
subject to planning
qaqisa  
completed
qasisa as inspi-
ration for young 
people’s interest in 
education imple-
mented
qaqisa is a stand-
ard programme for 
young people
courses for local fishermen in greenland as suppliers
 - 
not commenced
not commenced
not commenced
commenced in 
min. 5 towns
part of rga
apprentices/trainees and students
royal greenland, number of apprentices and trainees
51
48
47
48
>50
>50
greenland, number of apprentices and trainees
36
41
41
39
50
50
greenland, attached students taking higher vocational  
education in greenland
20
21
14
16
-
-
royal greenland, attached students
-
-
-
25
-
-
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
65
64
income statement
group
parent
   
note
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
revenue
2
4,848,640
5,327,510
2,609,681
3,072,052
change in inventories of finished goods
(148,732)
103,762
(19,983)
(75,134)
other operating income
3
50,996
200,641
37,820
189,703
4,750,904
5,631,913
2,627,518
3,186,621
costs of raw materials and consumables
(2,703,090)
(3,179,959)
(1,553,151)
(1,610,249)
other external expenses
(867,061)
(893,308)
(517,119)
(501,018)
staff costs
4
(1,043,125)
(1,030,886)
(678,637)
(684,365)
depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses
5
(167,090)
(150,849)
(107,405)
(91,407)
other operating costs
(15,150)
(5,715)
(526)
(540)
operating profit
(44,612)
371,196
(229,320)
299,042
profit/loss from investments in group enterprises after tax
0
0
84,305
40,211
profit/loss from investments in associates after tax
29,820
66,104
26,823
18,317
financial income
6
45,036
38,601
23,654
17,370
financial expenses
7
(89,438)
(71,612)
(38,357)
(43,613)
profit before tax
(59,194)
404,289
(132,895)
331,327
tax on profit
8
2,622
(93,290)
40,463
(63,872)
profit for the year
(56,572)
310,999
(92,432)
267,455
the group's profit is distributed as follows:
shareholders of royal greenland a/s
(92,432)
267,455
minority interests
35,860
43,544
(56,572)
310,999
proposed distribution of profit
proposed dividend
60,000
0
retained earnings
(152,432)
267,455
(92,432)
267,455
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
67
66
group
parent
   
note
31.12.20
dkk 1,000
31.12.19
dkk 1,000
31.12.20
dkk 1,000
31.12.19
dkk 1,000
share capital
850,000
850,000
850,000
850,000
reserve for net revaluation under the equity method
0
0
0
0
retained earnings
673,758
864,639
673,758
864,639
proposed dividend 
60,000
0
60,000
0
shareholders of royal greenland a/s’ share of equity
1,583,758
1,714,639
1,583,758
1,714,639
minority interests
196,635
173,218
0
-
total equity
1,780,393
1,887,857
1,583,758
1,714,639
deferred tax
17
111,044
161,070
58,644
110,287
other provisions
18
8,910
8,687
177
0
provisions
119,954
169,757
58,821
110,287
other credit institutions
2,328,987
2,414,910
2,250,879
2,414,910
other long-term debt
9,584
30,107
6,516
2,435
derivative financial instruments
29,852
5,487
29,852
5,487
long-term liabilities other than provisions
19
2,368,423
2,450,504
2,287,247
2,422,832
short-term portion of long-term liabilities other than provisions
86,546
60,869
76,904
0
credit institutions
260,343
197,930
108,917
102,486
trade payables
468,884
561,733
129,968
143,266
payables to group enterprises
0
0
144,642
120,490
payables to associates
32,551
78,208
32,551
78,192
income taxes
8
52,838
85,970
0
44,005
other payables
20
253,574
233,487
158,323
169,449
deferred income
6,201
7,013
445
0
short-term liabilities other than provisions
1,160,937
1,225,210
651,750
657,888
liabilities other than provisions
3,529,360
3,675,714
2,938,997
3,080,720
equity and liabilities
5,429,707
5,733,328
4,581,576
4,905,646
accounting policies
1
mortgages and contingent liabilities
21
other notes
22-25
group
parent
   
note
31.12.20
dkk 1,000
31.12.19
dkk 1,000
31.12.20
dkk 1,000
31.12.19
dkk 1,000
intangible assets
9
193,691
224,076
41,618
42,627
buildings
395,368
335,472
236,704
241,524
plant and machinery
247,597
263,130
121,740
156,265
vessels
986,865
943,418
782,469
799,418
other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment
21,036
22,927
15,290
18,170
fixed assets in progress
319,807
315,731
67,999
28,994
property, plant and equipment
10
1,970,673
1,880,678
1,224,202
1,244,371
investments in group enterprises
11
0
0
1,842,661
1,842,116
receivables from group enterprises
12
0
0
38,015
43,863
investments in associates
11
197,915
171,160
36,862
31,334
receivables from associates
12
41,487
6,048
5,436
6,048
derivative financial instruments
112,434
148,948
112,434
148,948
other fixed asset investments
13
215,840
248,007
79,039
75,016
fixed asset investments
567,676
574,163
2,114,447
2,147,325
fixed assets
2,732,040
2,678,917
3,380,267
3,434,323
inventories
14
1,572,089
1,821,789
711,121
752,177
trade receivables
804,370
747,228
7,703
9,504
receivables from group enterprises
0
0
457,646
672,543
receivables from associates
345
7,273
0
7,273
other receivables
15
51,792
54,075
6,177
2,769
deferred tax assets
17
88,305
70,685
0
0
income tax receivable
3,985
17,310
0
0
prepayments
16
6,438
28,407
1,999
2,371
receivables
955,235
924,978
473,525
694,460
cash
170,343
307,644
16,663
24,686
current assets
2,697,667
3,054,411
1,201,309
1,471,323
assets
5,429,707
5,733,328
4,581,576
4,905,646
assets
equity and liabilities
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
69
68
   
share
capital
dkk 1,000
retained 
earnings
dkk 1,000
proposed
dividend
dkk 1,000
total
dkk 1,000
minority 
interests 
dkk 1,000
equity
in total
dkk 1,000
equity at december 31st 2018
850,000
479,927
64,338
1,394,265
119,189
1,513,454
addition
0
0
0
0
12,998
12,998
exchange rate adjustment
0
35,017
0
35,017
0
35,017
fair value adjustments recognised in equity
0
12,513
0
12,513
0
12,513
tax, fair value adjustments
0
(4,040)
0
(4,040)
0
(4,040)
paid dividend
0
0
(62,979)
(62,979)
(17,846)
(80,825)
net profit for the year
0
267,455
0
267,455
43,544
310,999
equity at december 31st 2019
850,000
864,639
0
1,714,639
173,218
1,887,857
addition
0
0
0
0
5,877
5,877
exchange rate adjustment
0
(50,756)
0
(50,756)
11
(50,745)
fair value adjustments recognised in equity
0
19,166
0
19,166
0
19,166
tax, fair value adjustments
0
(6,859)
0
(6,859)
0
(6,859)
paid dividend
0
0
0
0
(18,331)
(18,331)
net profit for the year
0
(152,432)
60,000
(92,432)
35,860
(56,572)
equity at december 31st 2020
850,000
673,758
60,000
1,583,758
196,635
1,780,393
   
share
capital
dkk 1,000
reserve under 
the equity 
method
dkk 1,000
retained 
earnings
dkk 1,000
proposed
dividend
dkk 1,000
total
dkk 1,000
equity at december 31st 2018
850,000
0
553,694
62,979
1,466,673
exchange rate adjustment
0
0
35,017
0
35,017
fair value adjustments recognised in equity
0
0
12,513
0
12,513
tax, fair value adjustments
0
0
(4,040)
0
(4,040)
paid dividend
0
0
0
(62,979)
(62,979)
net profit for the year
0
0
267,455
0
267,455
equity at december 31st 2019
850,000
0
864,639
0
1,714,639
exchange rate adjustment
0
0
(50,756)
0
(50,756)
fair value adjustments recognised in equity
0
0
19,166
0
19,166
tax, fair value adjustments
0
0
(6,859)
0
(6,859)
paid dividend
0
0
0
0
0
net profit for the year
0
0
(152,432)
60,000
(92,432)
equity at december 31st 2020
850,000
0
673,758
60,000
1,583,758
statement of changes  
in equity  - group
statement of changes 
in equity - parent
the company's share capital consists of 850,000 shares of dkk 1,000 or multiples thereof. the share capital is not divided into classes.  
there have been no changes in the share capital for the last 5 years.
   
note
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
net profit for the year
(56,572)
310,999
adjustments relating to net profit for the year
26
177,165
61,170
working capital changes
27
72,755
(120,179)
cash flows from operating activities before net financials
193,348
251,990
ingoing payments relating to financial items
17,462
32,308
outgoing payments relating to financial items
(77,220)
(39,197)
cash flows from ordinary activities
133,590
245,101
paid taxes
(88,623)
(83,074)
cash flows from operating activities
44,967
162,027
purchase of net assets on transfer of company ownership
0
(88,009)
purchase of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
(315,754)
(992,958)
purchase of shares in associates
(20,197)
(5,902)
purchase of other fixed asset investments
(46,551)
(133,532)
sale of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
55,614
351,565
sale of other fixed asset investments
60,484
39,477
dividends received from associates
28,726
44,065
cash flows from investing activities
(237,678)
(785,294)
proceeds from obtaining/(instalments on) long-term liabilities
5,451
585,573
debt displacement on credit facilities
62,413
26,095
paid dividend
0
(62,979)
sale to/supply of capital from minority interests
5,877
12,998
dividends paid during the year to minority interests
(18,331)
(17,846)
cash flows from financing activities
55,410
543,841
increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents
(137,301)
(79,426)
cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
307,644
373,286
(reduction)/addition connected to business transfer
0
13,784
cash and cash equivalents, end of year
28
170,343
307,644
consolidated cash flow statement
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
71
70
1. accounting policies
general 
the annual report for royal greenland a/s has been 
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the danish 
financial statements act for state-owned public limited 
companies in accounting class d.
the accounting policies applied remain unchanged from 
last year.
consolidation 
the consolidated financial statements comprise royal 
greenland a/s (the parent company) and the asso-
ciated companies  (subsidiaries), in which the parent 
company directly or indirectly owns more than 50% of 
the voting rights or otherwise has a controlling inter-
est. companies in which the group has a significant 
influence, but not a controlling interest, are considered 
to be associates. the group summary is presented on 
page 91.
the consolidated financial statements are prepared 
as a consolidation of the parent company's and the 
individual subsidiaries' audited financial statements, 
which are all presented in accordance with the group's 
accounting policies. all intra-group receivables and 
debt, income and expenses, dividends and unrealised 
intra-group gains and losses are eliminated, together 
with set-off of all internal shareholdings.
subsidiaries’ accounting items are recognised 100% 
in the consolidated financial statements. minority 
interests’ share of the profit or loss for the year and of 
the equity of subsidiaries that are not wholly owned 
are included in the group’s profit or loss and equity, 
but are presented separately. purchase and sale of 
minority interests subject to a continuing controlling 
influence are recognised directly to equity as a trans-
action between capital owners. 
business combinations 
newly acquired or established companies are included 
in the group financial statements from the time of 
takeover. sold or liquidated companies are included in 
the consolidated statement of income up until the time 
of disposal. 
comparative figures are not adjusted for newly acquired 
companies. discontinued activities are presented 
separately, cf. below.
the acquisition date is the date on which the group 
actually achieves control of the acquired company.
on the acquisition of new companies in which the 
parent company achieves a controlling interest, the 
purchase method is used, after which the newly ac-
quired companies’ identifiable assets and liabilities are 
measured at fair value at the time of takeover. 
any positive difference (goodwill) between the cost 
price, the value of minority interests in the acquired 
company, and the fair value of any capital interests 
previously acquired, on the one hand; and the fair value 
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired, on the other hand, is recognised as 
goodwill under intangible assets. goodwill is written off 
on a linear basis in the income statement, according to 
an individual assessment of useful life. 
costs incurred in conjunction with company acquisitions 
are recognised in the income statement in the year in 
which they are incurred.
gain or loss from the transfer or disposal of subsidiaries 
is calculated as the difference between the sales sum 
or the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the net assets at the time of transfer or disposal, in-
cluding unamortised goodwill, earlier price adjustments 
and anticipated costs of the sale or disposal. gains and 
losses are included in the income statement.
intra-group business combinations   
for business combinations such as purchase and sale 
of capital interests, mergers, demergers, contribution 
of assets and share swaps, etc. on participation in 
activities subject to the parent company’s controlling 
influence, the book value method is applied whereby 
the combination is deemed to have taken place as of 
the acquisition date, without adjustment of comparative 
figures. differences between the agreed remuneration 
and the acquired company’s carrying amount are recog-
nised directly to equity. 
minority interests 
on calculating consolidated income and consolidated 
equity, the minority interests' proportionate share of 
the subsidiaries' profits and equity is stated separately.
foreign currency translation 
transactions in foreign currency are initially translated 
at the exchange rate on the transaction date. receiv-
ables, debts and other monetary items in foreign cur-
rency that are not settled on the balance sheet date 
are translated at the exchange rate on the balance 
sheet date. any differences in exchange rates that 
occur between the rate on the transaction date and 
the rate on the payment date or balance sheet date, 
respectively, are included in the income statement as 
financial items.
the income statements of foreign subsidiaries and 
associates are translated into danish kroner at the 
average exchange rate for the year, while the balance 
sheets are translated at the exchange rate on the 
balance sheet date. exchange rate differences arising 
from the translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ equity 
at the beginning of the year at the exchange rate on 
the balance sheet date are included directly in equity. 
the same applies to any exchange rate differences 
arising as a result of translation of the income state-
ment from the average exchange rate for the year to 
the exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
derivative financial instruments 
derivative financial instruments are measured initially 
in the balance sheet at cost price and subsequently at 
fair value. derivative financial instruments are included 
in the balance sheet under fixed asset investments 
and long-term liabilities.
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instru-
ments that are classified as and fulfil the conditions 
for hedging of a recognised asset or a recognised 
liability are included in the income statement under 
financial items together with any changes in the value 
of the hedged asset or the hedged liability.
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instru-
ments that are classified as and fulfil the conditions 
for hedging of future transactions are included directly 
in equity. once the hedged transactions are realised, 
the accumulated changes are included in the relevant 
account entries.
if derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the 
conditions for processing as hedging instruments, the 
changes to the fair value are included on an ongoing 
basis in the income statement as financial items.
statement of income
revenue 
the company has chosen ias 11/ias 18 as the inter-
pretation basis for revenue recognition.
net revenue is measured as the fair value of the 
agreed remuneration, excluding vat and taxes collect-
ed on behalf of third parties.  all types of discounts 
given are recognised in net revenue.
income from the sale of commodities and finished 
goods is included in the net revenue once the transfer 
of significant benefits and risks to the buyer has 
taken place, the income can be reliably compiled 
and payment is expected to have been received. the 
date of transfer of significant benefits and risks is in 
accordance with standardised delivery terms, based 
on incoterms® 2010. in cases where sold items are 
continuously delivered and integrated with the buyer's 
property, revenue is recognised in net revenue in step 
with delivery, whereby the net revenue corresponds to 
the sales value of the work performed during the year. 
other operating income and operating costsr 
other operating income and operating costs cover in-
come and costs of a secondary nature seen in relation 
to the group's primary operations.
research and development costs 
research and development costs cover costs, including 
remuneration and amortisation, that can be attributed to 
research and development activities.
research costs are included in the income statement for 
the year in which they were incurred.
development costs incurred for the maintenance and 
optimisation of existing products or production processes 
are charged as an expense. costs for the development 
of new products are included in the income statement, 
unless the criteria for inclusion in the balance sheet have 
been fulfilled for the individual development project.
financial items 
financial items cover interest income and interest costs, 
the interest share of financial leasing services, realised 
and unrealised exchange rate gains and losses in regard 
to any securities, liabilities and transactions in foreign 
currency, amortisation supplements/deductions in 
regard to mortgage debt, cash discounts etc., as well 
as supplements and allowances in accordance with the 
on-account tax scheme.
tax 
the year's tax, which comprises the current tax for the 
year and any amendments to deferred tax, is included 
in the income statement as the share that can be 
attributed to the profit or loss for the year, and directly 
in equity as the share that can be attributed to items 
posted directly to equity. the share of the recognised 
tax that relates to the year's extraordinary profits is 
recognised here, while the remaining share is included 
in the year's ordinary profits.
income tax payable or receivable and current tax 
receivables, respectively, are recognised in the balance 
sheet as tax calculated on the year's taxable income, 
adjusted for tax paid on account.
deferred tax is recognised and measured according to 
the balance sheet liability method on all temporary 
differences between the carrying and taxable values 
of assets and liabilities, whereby the taxable value of 
the assets is calculated on the basis of the planned 
use of the individual asset. no deferred tax is allocat-
ed for shares in subsidiaries. deferred tax is measured 
on the basis of the tax regulations and rates in the 
respective countries that will be applicable on the 
balance sheet date when the deferred tax is expected 
to be released as current tax. any changes in deferred 
tax as a result of changes in tax rates are recognised 
in the income statement.
deferred tax assets, including the tax value of any tax 
loss carryforwards, are recognised in the balance sheet at 
the value at which the asset is expected to be realised, 
by offsetting deferred tax liabilities or as net tax assets.
balance sheet
intangible assets   
the value of goodwill, quotas and other intangible 
fixed assets is in real terms kept intact for an indef-
inite period, but is written off over a period of up to 
20 years in accordance with the greenlandic financial 
statements act.
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
73
72
goodwill and koncerngoodwill 
goodwill is amortised linearly over its assessed useful 
lifetime, which is determined on the basis of the man-
agement's experience within the individual business 
areas. the amortisation period normally constitutes 
5 years, but may be longer for strategic acquisitions 
with a strong market position and long-term earnings 
profile, should the longer amortisation period be 
assessed to better reflect the group's utilisation of the 
relevant resources.
the carrying amount of goodwill is assessed regularly 
and reduced to the lower recoverable amount in the 
income statement should the carrying amount exceed 
the expected future net income from the company or 
operations to which the goodwill is related.
quotas, it and licences 
acquired intellectual property rights in the form of 
quotas, it and licences are measured at cost price with 
deduction of accumulated amortisation. amortisa-
tion occurs linearly over 3-10 years. the acquired 
intellectual property rights are written down to the 
recoverable amount should this be lower than the 
carrying amount.
development projectsr 
development projects cover costs, salaries and remu-
neration, as well as amortisation, that can be linked 
directly or indirectly to the company's development 
activities and which fulfil the criteria for recognition in 
the balance sheet.
capitalised development costs are measured at cost 
price minus accumulated amortisation, or at the recov-
erable amount, should this be lower.
capitalised development projects are amortised linear-
ly after completion of the development activities over 
the assessed useful economic lifetime. the amortisa-
tion period normally constitutes 3-10 years.
other intangible fixed assets 
other intangible fixed assets concern commercial 
agreements and are measured at cost price with 
deduction of accumulated amortisation. the lifetime is 
considered to be indefinite, so that amortisation takes 
place on a linear basis over 20 years. the acquired 
intellectual property rights are written down to the 
recoverable amount should this be lower than the 
carrying amount.
property, plant and equipment 
land and buildings, vessels, technical facilities and 
machinery, as well as other plant, operating equip-
ment and fixtures, are measured at cost price minus 
the accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
land is not written off.
the cost price concerns the purchase price and any 
costs directly attached to the purchase, as well as the 
costs of preparing the asset until the time when the 
asset is ready to be taken into use. for own-produced 
assets, the cost price covers direct and indirect costs 
of materials, components, subsuppliers and salaries.
interest costs on loans to finance the manufacture of 
property, plant and equipment are included in the cost 
price providing that they relate to the manufacturing 
period. all other financing costs are included in the 
income statement.
the depreciation period and residual value are 
determined at the time of purchase and reassessed 
annually. should the residual value exceed the carrying 
amount of the asset, depreciation is discontinued.
the depreciation base is the cost price minus the ex-
pected residual value after the useful lifetime. linear 
depreciation is based on the following assessment of 
the expected useful lives of the assets:
buildings 
10 - 50 years
vessels 
7 - 16 years
production facilities that are included  
in the financial entry “vessels” 
5 - 10 years
production facilities and machinery 
5 - 20 years
other facilities, operating equipment  
and fixtures 
3 - 5 years
property, plant and equipment is written down to the 
recoverable amount should this be lower than the 
carrying amount.
gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and 
equipment are calculated as the difference between 
the sales price minus the sales costs and the carrying 
amount at the time of sale. gains are recognised in 
the income statement under other operating income, 
while losses are recognised in the income statement 
under other operating costs.
lease contracts 
the company has chosen ias 17 as the interpretation 
basis for the classification and recognition of lease 
contracts.
on initial recognition in the balance sheet, lease con-
tracts concerning assets, where the company carries all 
significant risks and benefits associated with the right of 
ownership (financial leasing), are measured at the lower 
of fair value and current value of the future leasing 
payments. the current value is calculated at the internal 
interest rate in the lease agreement, or the alternative 
borrowing rate as the discounting factor. financial 
leased assets are thereafter treated in the same way as 
the company's other assets.
the capitalised residual leasing obligation is recognised 
as a liability in the balance sheet, and the interest 
element of the leasing payment is recognised in the 
income statement over the lifetime of the contract.
all other lease contracts are considered operational 
leasing. payments related to operational leasing and 
other lease agreements are recognised in the income 
statement during the lifetime of the contract. the com-
pany's total obligation concerning operational leasing 
and lease agreements is disclosed under contingent 
items, etc.
fixed asset investments
investments in subsidiaries and associates 
investments in subsidiaries and associated companies 
are measured in the parent company's annual financial 
statements, according to the equity method. the 
company considers the equity method for subsidiaries 
to be a consolidation method.
on initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are 
measured at cost, cf. the description under accounting 
policies applied concerning the consolidated financial 
statements, i.e. without addition of transaction costs. 
on initial recognition, investments in associated compa-
nies are measured at cost including transaction costs. 
the cost price is allocated according to the acquisition 
method, cf. the aforementioned accounting policy con-
cerning the consolidated accounts. the cost price is ad-
justed by the profit shares after tax, compiled according 
to the consolidated accounting policy with deduction or 
addition of unrealised intra-group profit/loss. 
actual added value and any goodwill in relation to the 
equity value of the underlying company is amortised 
in accordance with the accounting policy applied to the 
consolidated accounts. negative goodwill is recognised 
in the income statement.
dividend received is deducted from the carrying value. 
investments in subsidiaries and associated companies 
that are measured at equity value are subject to an 
impairment test requirement, if there are indications 
of impairment.
the parent company's share of the company's profits is 
included in the income statement after the elimination 
of any unrealised intra-group gains and losses and 
with the deduction or addition of amortisation of group 
goodwill or negative group goodwill, respectively.
subsidiaries and associates with a negative equity 
value are measured at dkk 0, and any receivables in 
these companies are reduced by the parent company's 
share of the negative equity value, to the extent that 
this is assessed to be irrecoverable. should the nega-
tive equity value exceed the receivable, the remaining 
amount is included under provisions, to the extent that 
the parent company has a legal or constructive obliga-
tion to cover the relevant company's liabilities.
net revaluation of investments in subsidiaries and 
associates is transferred to the reserve for net reval-
uation of investments to the extent that the carrying 
amount exceeds the cost price.
other fixed asset investments 
other fixed asset investments primarily concern long-
term receivables and unlisted investments.
investments and receivables that are not held until ma-
turity are measured upon acquisition at cost price and 
subsequently at fair value. should it not be possible to 
reliably determine the fair value, they are measured at 
cost price.
receivables that are held until maturity are measured 
upon acquisition at cost price and subsequently at 
amortised cost price.
any depreciation to a lower value takes place with due 
consideration of an individual assessment of the risk 
of loss.
inventories 
inventories of consumables are measured at cost price, 
calculated according to weighted average prices, or at 
net realisable value, should this be lower.
the inventory of consumables includes packaging, 
operating supplies and fishing boxes.
the inventory of fishing boxes is measured at a fixed 
amount. additional purchases are expensed on an 
ongoing basis. other inventories of consumables are 
measured at cost price, calculated according to the fifo 
method, or at net realisable value, should this be lower.
inventory that falls under manufacture or end products, 
including end products produced onboard own trawlers, 
are measured at cost price, calculated according to 
weighted average prices, or at net realisable value, 
should this be lower. the cost price covers the costs of 
the raw materials, consumables and direct salaries, as 
well as any indirect production costs. indirect produc-
tion costs are allocated on the basis of the individual 
production units’ normal capacity. indirect production 
costs cover indirect materials and salaries, the costs 
of maintenance, depreciation and impairment of the 
trawlers used in the production process, processing 
plant buildings, machinery and equipment, as well as 
the costs of factory administration and management.
receivables 
receivables are measured at amortised cost price, 
which normally corresponds to the nominal value mi-
nus a reduction to accommodate any anticipated loss.
accruals 
accruals included under assets cover costs incurred 
in regard to the subsequent financial year. accruals 
are measured at amortised cost price, which normally 
corresponds to the nominal value.
equity 
dividends are recognised as a liability at the time of 
adoption at the annual general meeting. the proposed 
dividends for the financial year are listed as a separate 
entry under equity.
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
75
74
provisions 
provisions are recognised when the group, as a result 
of an event before or on the balance sheet date, has a 
legal or constructive obligation, and it is likely that there 
may be financial gains from settling the obligation.
provisions with an expected maturity beyond one year 
from the balance sheet date are discounted using a 
market-based interest rate.
liabilities
financial liabilities 
financial liabilities are measured at the time of 
borrowing at cost price, corresponding to the proceeds 
received minus incurred transaction costs. the liability 
is subsequently measured at the amortised cost price 
corresponding to the capitalised value using the effec-
tive interest method, so that the difference between 
the proceeds and the nominal value is recognised in 
the income statement over the loan period.
provided that a financial liability is effectively hedged 
by a derivative financial instrument, the financial 
liability is measured at fair value, and any changes to 
the fair value are recognised in the income statement 
under financial items together with any changes in the 
fair value of the derivative financial instrument.
other financial liabilities 
other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised 
cost price, which normally corresponds to the nominal 
value.
accruals 
accruals recognised under liabilities cover income 
received for recognition in subsequent financial years. 
accruals are measured at amortised cost price, which 
normally corresponds to the nominal value.
cash flow statement  
the cash flow statement for the group is presented 
according to the indirect method and shows the 
cash flows in regard to operations, investments and 
financing, as well as the group's liquid assets at the 
beginning and end of the year. a separate cash flow 
statement has not been prepared for the parent com-
pany, as this is included in the cash flow statement for 
the group.
the liquidity effect of the purchase and sale of new 
businesses is shown separately under cash flows relat-
ing to investment activities. cash flow from acquired 
companies is recognised in the cash flow statement 
from the acquisition date, while cash flow from sold 
companies is recognised up until the time of sale.
cash flow from operating activities is calculated as 
the operating profit adjusted for non-cash operating 
items, changes in working capital and paid corporate 
income tax.
cash flow from investment activities covers payments 
in connection with the purchase and sale of compa-
nies and activities, as well as the purchase and sale of 
intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and 
fixed asset investments.
cash flow from financial activities covers changes in 
the size or composition of the group's share capital 
and any related costs, as well as any borrowing, 
repayment of interest-bearing debt and payment of 
dividends to shareholders.
cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-
term securities with insignificant price risk.
segment information
the group's primary segment comprises the business 
segment, while the secondary segment is geographi-
cal markets. 
the group’s primary segment 
the group’s primary segment is reported on the basis 
of the internal reporting to the group management 
and is distributed on retail, foodservice, industry and 
others.
the group’s secondary segment 
the group’s secondary segment is the geographical 
markets and is distributed on scandinavia, europe, 
asia, north america and other markets, respectively.
financial highlights  
the key figure 'net interest-bearing debt' is obtained 
after offsetting derivative financial instruments with 
a positive value. on calculating the equity ratio and 
net interest-bearing debt/ebitda, derivative financial 
instruments with a positive value are offset in both 
the total assets and the net interest-bearing debt. on 
calculating the return on equity, royal greenland's 
shareholders’ share of the profit for the year is used. 
on calculating the equity ratio, royal greenland's 
shareholders’ share of equity is used.
as the 2015/16 financial year covers 15 months, the 
financial year's figures from the income statement are 
calculated proportionally for 12 months to the extent 
they are included in the calculation of key figures.
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
ebit margin
ebt margin
roic including goodwill
return on equity (roe)
equity ratio
net interest-bearing debt / ebitda
=
=
=
=
=
=
profit from primary operations, including associated companies  x 100
net revenue
ebt x 100
net revenue
ebita x 100
average invested capital including goodwill
net profit/loss for the year  x 100
average equity
equity  x 100
balance sheet total
net interest-bearing debt
ebitda including associated companies
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
77
76
group
parent
2   net revenue - geographical markets
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
scandinavia
1,103,434
1,230,935
-
-
europe
1,437,800
1,671,603
2,354,473
2,808,492
asia
1,482,222
1,793,697
-
-
north america
693,703
551,945
-
-
other markets
131,481
79,330
255,208
263,560
4,848,640
5,327,510
2,609,681
3,072,052
business segments
retail
food service
1,684,653
1,788,083
industry
799,406
943,983
other
2,330,644
2,580,499
Øvrige
33,937
14,945
4,848,640
5,327,510
3   other operating income
management fees
2,750
7,818
12,987
14,874
rental income
6,218
20,927
5,272
4,603
sale of annual quota
12,276
12,656
17,276
13,814
profit on sale of fixed assets
7,588
150,389
1,493
144,113
grants received
9,829
1,811
0
0
other operating income
12,335
7,040
792
12,299
50,996
200,641
37,820
189,703
4   staff costs
the total amount of wages and salaries, etc. is specified as follows:
salaries and wages
915,597
905,773
600,006
605,772
pension contributions and other social costs
53,585
49,604
42,119
38,732
other staff costs
73,943
75,509
36,512
39,861
1,043,125
1,030,886
678,637
684,365
average number of employees
2,230
2,200
1,452
1,454
remuneration of the supervisory board and executive board
remuneration of the parent company’s supervisory board
2,200
2,200
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
group
parent
5   depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
buildings
37,580
31,412
31,507
26,730
plant and machinery
59,608
51,394
34,992
30,408
vessels
36,078
33,871
26,047
18,087
other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment
9,351
9,103
7,594
7,474
goodwill
10,385
9,205
2,525
2,524
quotas
3,411
4,019
661
1,269
it and licences
4,126
5,094
4,079
4,915
other intangible assets 
6,551
6,751
0
0
167,090
150,849
107,405
91,407
6   financial income
capital gains
32,755
26,663
13,065
9,132
interest from affiliated businesses
-
-
6,912
3,843
interest on bank deposit
212
916
84
549
income from fixed asset investments
11,349
10,244
3,586
3,846
other financial income
720
778
7
0
45,036
38,601
23,654
17,370
7   financial expenses
capital loss
52,085
37,519
5,794
13,849
interest on bank and mortgage debt
34,134
29,659
32,074
28,465
interest to affiliated businesses
-
-
86
239
other financial expenses
3,219
4,434
403
1,060
89,438
71,612
38,357
43,613
8   tax on profit
current tax for the year
(63,013)
(62,954)
0
(27,070)
other taxes
(15,167)
(10,626)
(25,184)
(18,875)
deferred tax for the year
79,040
(37,991)
64,014
(40,430)
effect of changed tax rate
0
24,465
0
22,118
adjustment to previous years
9,041
(6,184)
8,912
301
adjustment of deferred tax for previous year
(7,279)
0
(7,279)
84
2,622
(93,290)
40,463
(63,872)
reconciliation of tax rate:
greenland tax rate
27 %
32%
27 %
32%
other taxes
(26) %
3%
(19) %
6%
deduction for declared dividend
0 %
(5)%
0 %
(6)%
effect of changed tax rate
0 %
(6)%
0 %
(7)%
tax concerning previous year
3 %
1%
0 %
0%
write-down of tax assets in foreign companies
4 %
2%
1 %
0%
effect of difference in tax rate between greenland and foreign enterprises
(13) %
0%
0 %
0%
tax-free income (net) from affiliated and associated companies, etc.
9 %
 (4)%
21 %
 (6)%
tax rate expensed
4 %
 23%
30 %
 19%
remuneration of the executive board
fixed 2020
bonus* 2020
total 2020
fixed 2019
bonus* 2019
total 2019
mikael thinghuus
4,496
416
4,912
4,496
nils duus kinnerup
2,917
3,016
2,900
bruno olesen
2,762
2,941
2,745
lars nielsen
2,793
3,006
2,776
executive board in total
12,968
907
13,875
12,917
512
13,429
*) no bonus has been allocated to the executive board for 2020. the aforementioned bonus amount reflects the accounting cost for the 2019 bonus year, paid out in 2020. 
in addition to the fixed salary, the group executive board can earn a performance-based bonus.
in 2020, ceo mikael thinghuus received a bonus of dkk 1.0 million concerning 2019, equivalent to fulfilment of the objectives at 35%. the total remuneration in 
2019 thus amounted to dkk 5.5 million.
the executive board members also receive a free company vehicle, telephone, internet and newspaper subscription. the executive board do not have any pension, 
severance or retention schemes.
ceo mikael thinghuus and group production director lars nielsen are subject to 18 months’ notice of termination by the company, and must themselves give six 
months’ notice of termination. cfo nils duus kinnerup and group sales and marketing director bruno olesen are subject to 12 months’ notice of termination by the 
company, and must themselves give six months’ notice of termination.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
79
78
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
group
9   intangible assets      
group
goodwill
dkk 1,000
quotas 
dkk 1,000
it and
licences
dkk 1,000
development
projects
dkk 1,000
other  
intangible
assets
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
162,924
153,509
41,846
11,764
137,241
value adjustment at year-end rate
(4,834)
0
(2)
0
(9,962)
transferred from plant under construction
0
0
1,594
0
0
additions for the year
0
0
4,881
0
0
disposals for the year
(43,322)
0
(43)
0
0
cost at december 31st 2020
114,768
153,509
48,276
11,764
127,279
amortisation and impairment losses at january 1st 2020
(63,273)
(147,480)
(36,297)
(11,764)
(24,395)
value adjustment at year-end rate
496
0
1
0
1,958
amortisation for the year
(10,385)
(3,411)
(4,126)
0
(6,551)
impairment losses for the year
0
0
0
0
0
amortisation regarding disposals for the year
43,322
0
0
0
0
amortisation and impairment losses at december 31st 2020
(29,840)
(150,891)
(40,422)
(11,764)
(28,988)
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
84,928
2,618
7,854
0
98,291
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
99,651
6,030
5,549
0
112,846
parent
9   intangible assets   
goodwill
dkk 1,000
quotas
dkk 1,000
it
dkk 1,000
development
projects
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
52,991
118,279
41,111
11,764
additions for the year
0
0
4,662
0
transferred from plant under construction
0
0
1,594
0
reclassification
0
0
0
0
disposals for the year
0
0
0
0
cost at december 31st 2020
52,991
118,279
47,367
11,764
amortisation and impairment losses at january 1st 2020
(17,252)
(116,890)
(35,612)
(11,764)
amortisation for the year
(2,525)
(661)
(4,079)
0
reclassification
0
0
0
0
amortisation regarding disposals for the year
0
0
0
0
amortisation and impairment losses at december 31st 2020
(19,777)
(117,551)
(39,691)
(11,764)
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
33,214
728
7,676
0
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
35,739
1,389
5,499
0
group
10   property, plant and equipment     
buildings 
dkk 1,000
plant and 
machinery
dkk 1,000
vessels
dkk 1,000
other 
fixtures etc,
dkk 1,000
fixed assets in 
progress
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2019
1,066,051
886,230
1,303,467
89,360
315,731
transferred on purchase of company
0
0
0
0
0
value adjustment at year-end rate
(9,828)
(18,644)
(1,599)
(1,312)
(448)
transferred from plant under construction
42,800
(5,156)
311
2,088
(41,636)
additions for the year
61,787
56,057
140,773
6,096
46,160
disposals for the year
(1,455)
(52,940)
(93,965)
(8,478)
0
cost at december 31st 2019
1,159,355
865,547
1,348,987
87,754
319,807
amortisation and impairment losses at january 1st 2019
(730,579)
(623,100)
(360,049)
(66,433)
-
value adjustment at year-end rate
3,385
12,920
918
1,073
-
amortisation for the year
(37,580)
(59,608)
(36,078)
(9,351)
-
impairment losses for the year
0
0
0
0
-
amortisation regarding disposals for the year
787
51,838
33,087
7,993
-
amortisation and impairment losses at december 31st 2020
(763,987)
(617,950)
(362,122)
(66,718)
-
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
395,368
247,597
986,865
21,036
319,807
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
335,472
263,130
943,418
22,927
315,731
the vessels item includes financially leased vessels at a total value of dkk 649,637k.
basis for goodwill amortisation periods
upernavik seafood a/s
royal greenland's investment in upernavik seafood a/s is considered to be of strategic importance to the group's greenland halibut activities. in view of the 
group's expected plans to increase the company's activities and future earnings, the economic lifetime of goodwill was set at 20 years as from the acquisition 
date in 2014. the company has subsequently merged with the parent company, royal greenland a/s.
a&l seafoods ltd.
the investment in a&l seafoods ltd. strengthens the group's snow crab activities. in view of the expected future earnings and the long-term potential, the 
economic lifetime of goodwill is set at 10 years.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
81
80
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
group
parent
11   investments in group enterprises and associates
associates
dkk 1,000
associates
dkk 1,000
group
enterprises
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
33,362
18,249
2,066,299
additions for the year
29,638
12
46
disposals for the year
0
0
0
cost at december 31st 2020
63,000
18,261
2,066,345
value adjustments at january 1st 2020
137,470
12,757
(224,183)
exchange rate adjustments
(3,826)
(2,430)
(48,326)
share of profit/loss for the year
29,820
26,823
84,305
dividends
(28,726)
(18,726)
(33,714)
capital adjustments
0
0
(1,766)
disposals for the year
0
0
0
value adjustments december 31st 2020
134,738
18,424
(223,684)
offset in receivables
177
177
0
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
197,915
36,862
1,842,661
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
171,160
31,334
1,842,116
for the group, the original difference in value on the acquisition of ownership interests in associated companies amounts to dkk 42,902k. book value at 31.12.2020 
amounts to dkk 31,081k.
for the parent company, the original difference in value on the acquisition of ownership interests in associated companies amounts to dkk 60k. book value at 
31.12.2020 amounts to dkk 0k.
the group overview on page 89 presents information about affiliated and associated companies.
group
parent
12   receivables from group enterprises and associates
associates
dkk 1,000
associates
dkk 1,000
group
enterprises
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
6,048
6,048
43,863
additions for the year
36,051
0
0
disposals for the year
(612)
(612)
(5,848)
cost at december 31st 2020
41,487
5,436
38,015
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
41,487
5,436
38,015
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
6,048
6,048
43,863
parent
10   property, plant and equipment     
buildings 
dkk 1,000
plant and 
machinery
dkk 1,000
vessels
dkk 1,000
other 
fixtures etc.
dkk 1,000
fixed assets in 
progress
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
912,200
534,574
977,989
67,331
28,994
transferred from plant under construction
17,297
(10,298)
(1,585)
2,088
(9,096)
additions for the year
9,744
11,241
11,923
3,022
48,101
transferred from group companies
0
0
0
0
0
disposals for the year
(443)
(9,270)
(3,780)
(7,472)
0
cost at december 31st 2020
938,798
526,247
984,547
64,969
67,999
amortisation and impairment losses at january 1st 2020
(670,676)
(378,309)
(178,571)
(49,161)
-
amortisation for the year
(31,507)
(34,992)
(26,047)
(7,594)
-
impairment losses for the year
0
0
0
0
-
transferred from group companies
0
0
0
0
-
amortisation regarding disposals for the year
89
8,794
2,540
7,076
-
amortisation and impairment losses at december 31st 2020
(702,094)
(404,507)
(202,078)
(49,679)
-
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
236,704
121,740
782,469
15,290
67,999
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
241,524
156,265
799,418
18,170
28,994
the vessels item includes financially leased vessels at a total value of dkk 649,637k.
group
parent
13   other fixed asset investments
dkk 1,000
dkk 1,000
cost at january 1st 2020
264,158
86,441
value adjustments
(8,298)
0
additions for the year
46,551
15,942
disposals for the year
(69,925)
(11,571)
cost at december 31st 2020
232,486
90,812
provisions for losses at january 1st 2020
(16,151)
(11,425)
value adjustments
(147)
0
change in provisions for the year
(348)
(348)
provisions for losses at december 31st 2020
(16,646)
(11,773)
carrying amount at december 31st 2020
215,840
79,039
carrying amount at december 31st 2019
248,007
75,016
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
83
82
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
group
parent
14   inventories
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
holdings of raw materials
392,218
473,071
34,197
57,473
holdings of goods in process
9,462
16,347
2,092
1,080
holdings of finished products
1,033,765
1,192,687
579,058
599,042
holdings of other products
136,644
139,684
95,774
94,582
1,572,089
1,821,789
711,121
752,177
of which the carrying amount of goods at net realisation value
146,881
122,807
135,219
55,397
15   other receivables
insurance compensation receivable
3,416
1,882
3,416
75
vat and customs receivable
26,143
37,156
0
0
other receivables
22,233
15,037
2,761
2,694
51,792
54,075
6,177
2,769
16   prepayments, assets
prepaid rent and consumption taxes
2,200
2,932
0
0
prepaid quota
0
17,306
0
0
other prepayments
4,238
8,169
1,999
2,371
6,438
28,407
1,999
2,371
group
parent
17   deferred tax
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
deferred tax concerns the following items:
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
106,161
117,817
81,936
94,930
fixed asset investments
28,139
26,466
0
0
other accounting items
(23,256)
16,787
16,789
15,357
deficit carried forward
0
0
(40,081)
0
111,044
161,070
58,644
110,287
deferred tax assets concern the following items:
deficit carried forward
44,226
21,171
0
0
other tax assets
44,079
49,514
0
0
88,305
70,685
0
0
deferred tax (net):
beginning of year
(90,385)
(84,044)
(110,287)
(88,018)
adjustment to previous years
(7,279)
0
(7,279)
84
value adjustments
977
(951)
0
0
addition
0
(3,711)
0
0
transferred to tax payable
0
15,887
0
0
change in the income statement during the year
79,040
(37,991)
64,014
(40,432)
effect of changed tax rate in the income statement
0
24,465
0
22,118
change in equity during the year
(5,092)
(3,980)
(5,092)
(3,979)
effect of changed tax rate on equity
0
(60)
0
(60)
end of year
(22,739)
(90,385)
(58,644)
(110,287)
18   other provisions
other provisions at january 1st 2020
8,687
7,797
0
0
value adjustments
(336)
273
0
0
additions for the year
559
617
177
0
disposals for the year
0
0
0
0
other provisions at december 31st 2020
8,910
8,687
177
0
as at december 31st 2020, the group had a recognised tax asset totalling dkk 88,305k. the 
tax asset comprises taxable deficits carried forward of dkk 44,226k and non-utilised taxable 
deductions in the form of timing differences of dkk 44,079k.
based on the budgets up to 2025, the management has assessed that it is probable that there 
will be future taxable income available, whereby non-utilised taxable deficits and non-utilised 
taxable deductions can be utilised.
other provisions concern pensions.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
85
84
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
contingent liabilities 
the royal greenland group has certain ongoing legal cases, including queries raised by the tax authorities. the management believes 
that the outcome of these legal cases and queries will not significantly affect the group's financial position.
group
parent
20   other debt
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
payable salaries, a-tax, social contributions, etc.
117,799
105,538
75,593
74,977
holiday pay commitments
47,816
46,996
38,831
38,869
interest
3,686
4,452
3,283
3,974
vat and taxes
31,486
46,427
23,405
38,332
derivative financial instruments
0
408
0
408
other costs payable
52,787
29,666
17,211
12,889
253,574
233,487
158,323
169,449
21   mortgages and contingent liabilities
mortgages
as security for accounts with credit institutions fixed assets are mortgaged for a book value of
156,079
153,716
0
0
contractual obligations
contracts have been entered into for the delivery of fixed assets for a value of
207,378
248,784
7,000
24,307
there are rental and leasing obligations falling due after the balance sheet date amounting to
83,757
85,273
52,862
54,970
of which falling due within one year
32,577
31,422
22,681
21,287
surety and guarantee commitments
associates
5,000
5,000
0
0
third party
3,163
4,635
3,163
4,635
associated companies
-
-
826,060
695,548
group
22   financial risks  
receivables
dkk 1,000
liabilities
dkk 1,000
hedged by
forward
exchange
contracts
and options
dkk 1,000
net
position
dkk 1,000
positions in the key currencies:
usd
385,146
(133,822)
(252,195)
(871)
gbp
33,404
(44,258)
(44,484)
(55,338)
sek
26,892
(50,117)
(13,315)
(36,540)
jpy
153,345
(119,855)
(55,863)
(22,373)
598,787
(348,052)
(365,857)
(115,122)
group
reassessment/maturity date
within
one year
dkk 1,000
within
two-five years
dkk 1,000
after
five years
dkk 1,000
hereof 
fixed-rate
loan  
dkk 1,000
effective
rate of 
interest
%
mortgage credit and credit institutions, loans
(75,720)
(956,277)
(1,329,223)
(1,450,793)
0.4 – 7.25
the currency hedging performed solely covers commercial positions.
the company has raised fixed-interest-rate loans in usd. all of the loans are converted to loans at fixed or variable interest rates in dkk/eur by using 
currency and interest rate swaps. the nominal principal of the contracted swaps is usd 212,500,000. 
interest rate risks
concerning the group's financial assets and liabilities, the following contractual reassessment and redemption dates can be stated, according to which date 
occurs first. the effective interest rates are compiled on the basis of the current level of interest rates at 31.12.2020.
cash and cash equivalents amount to dkk 170,479k and accrue interest at an effective interest rate in the range of 0.0-2.0%. the debt on overdraft 
facilities amounts to dkk 260,343k and accrues interest at an effective interest rate in the range of 0.7-1.5%.
group
parent
23   fees to auditors appointed by the general meeting
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
audit fee
2,584
2,726
1,415
1,410
other declarations from the auditor
151
226
0
70
tax advisory services
1,064
750
669
440
other services
1,123
1,475
881
130
adjustments concerning previous years
39
(14)
15
(18)
4,961
5,163
2,980
2,032
24   related parties
related parties of the group are the members of the supervisory board and the executive board, as well as the owner, the government of greenland.
in the current financial year, the group has not executed any transactions with the supervisory board or executive board other than management remuneration, as 
disclosed in note 4.
all transactions with related parties have occurred on market terms.
group
parent
19   long-term liabilities other than provisions
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
31.12.2020
dkk 1,000
31.12.2019
dkk 1,000
after 5 years or later the following fall due: 
 
credit institutions
1,329,223
1,886,992
1,299,045
1,842,833
1,329,223
1,886,992
1,299,045
1,842,833
interest and maturities of non-current liabilities  
(group, converted to dkk)
weighted
term (years)
fixed/
floating 
effective rate of interest
    2020                  2019
nominal value dkkm
      2020                    2019
debt to associated companies
1
var.
3.97%
3.78%
22
25
bank loans
10
var.
1.65%
-
60
-
private placements 
6
fast/var.
1.35%
1.32%
2,279
2-288
2,361
2,313
weighted average effective interest rate
 1.39%
1.35%
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
87
86
25    the managerial positions held by members of the supervisory board and executive board  
in other greenlandic and danish public limited companies
the managerial positions held by members of the supervisory board and executive board in other commercial undertakings, except for wholly-owned subsidiaries:
supervisory board
company
managerial position
niels de coninck-smith
chairman
welltec a/s
chairman
jan h. lynge-pedersen
deputy chairman
kni a/s 
kni ejendomme a/s
neqi a/s
akia sisimiut a/s
pitsaasut aps
chief executive officer 
chairman
chairman
chairman
chairman
pernille fabricius
nnit a/s
mt højgaard holding a/s
mt højgaard a/s
gabriel holding a/s
gabriel a/s
gabriel ejendomme a/s
gabriel innovation a/s
scales a/s
chief executive officer
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
niels smedegaard
bikubenfonden 
norwegian air shuttle asa
abacus medicine a/s
iss a/s
molslinjen a/s
frederiksbergfonden
falck a/s
dsv panalpina a/s
tt club
uk p&i
chairman
chairman 
chairman
chairman
chairman
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
tina lynge schmidt
nuup bussii a/s
chairman
niels ole møller
inughuit seafood a/s
chief executive officer
malik hegelund olsen
air greenland a/s
kofoeds skole nuuk
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
executive board
company
managerial position
mikael thinghuus 
ceo
catering danmark aps
færch & co. gastro aps
ice trawl greenland a/s
chairman 
chairman 
member of the supervisory board
nils duus kinnerup 
cfo
intego a/s
proniq holding a/s
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
bruno olesen 
group sales director
skare meat packers k/s
skare food a/s
defco a/s af 2019
chairman
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
lars nielsen 
group production director
gaia fish a/s
sisimiut fish a/s
pelagic greenland a/s
arctic fish greenland a/s
inughuit seafood a/s
sisimiut fish a/s
gaia fish a/s
ice trawl greenland a/s
qaleralik a/s
qalut vónin a/s
independent fish harvesters ltd.
gulf shrimp ltd.
quinlan brothers maritime limited
Øksfjord eiendom as
maniitsoq as
international seafood s.a.
blue ocean seafood spa.
chief executive officer
chief executive officer
chairman
chairman
deputy chairman
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
member of the supervisory board
group
26   adjustments relating to net profit for the year
2020
dkk 1,000
2019
dkk 1,000
depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses
167,090
150,849
financial items allocated to profit for the year
44,402
33,011
income taxes expensed
(2,622)
93,290
provisions, etc.
382
(680)
grants received
(9,829)
(1,811)
gains and losses from sale of fixed assets
7,562
(147,385)
profit from associates
(29,820)
(66,104)
177,165
61,170
27   changes in working capital
change in receivables
(67,543)
(71,809)
change in inventory
249,700
(176,690)
change in trade payables and other payables
(109,402)
128,320
72,755
(120,179)
28   cash and cash equivalents, end of year
notes to the financial statements
notes to the financial statements
cash and cash equivalents amount to 170,343 tdkk.
annual report
royal greenland a/s - 2020
89
supervisory board 
executive board 
chairman 
niels de  
coninck-smith
boardmember 
tina lynge 
schmidt
boardmember 
malik hegelund 
olsen *)
boardmember 
mika 
heilmann *)
ceo 
mikael 
thinghuus
group 
production
director 
lars
nielsen
deputy chairman  
jan h. lynge-  
pedersen
boardmember 
pernille 
fabricius
boardmember 
niels  
smedegaard
boardmember 
kristine  
winberg
boardmem-
ber niels ole 
mØller *)
*) elected by the  
    employees
cfo 
nils duus 
kinnerup
group
sales
director 
bruno olesen
corporate governance
royal greenland complies with the guidelines of the 
government of greenland for corporate governance 
in government-owned companies. these guidelines 
accord with the oecd recommendations for state-
owned companies, and to a large extent also with the 
recommendations for listed companies.
royal greenland is headed by a supervisory board 
and executive board. the supervisory board has nine 
members, three of whom are employee representa-
tives elected for a period of four years, while the other 
six members are elected by the general meeting and 
stand for election every year. the six board members 
elected by the general meeting are independent, ac-
cording to the definition in the recommendation of the 
“committee for good corporate governance”. there is 
no age limit for the members of the supervisory board.
the board members encompass a range of experi-
ence from the greenlandic, danish and international 
business worlds. the supervisory board is headed by 
the chairman, niels de coninck-smith. the chairman is 
appointed for a period of one year at a time. 
the board has established two committees:
• the audit committee
• the recruitment committee
the executive board consists of four members: ceo 
mikael thinghuus, cfo nils duus kinnerup, group 
production director lars nielsen and group sales and 
marketing director bruno olesen. for other offices held 
by the supervisory board and the executive board, see 
note 25. 
remuneration
the remuneration of board members is subject to 
the approval of the annual general meeting, and is 
specified in note 4. the fee consists entirely of a basic 
fee, plus, for the chairman, payment of expenses for 
secretarial assistance and telephone calls. the remu-
neration of the executive board is negotiated with 
the supervisory board and consists of a fixed basic 
salary, a performance bonus and other customary 
non-monetary benefits, such as a company car, etc. 
the remuneration of the executive board is specified 
in note 4. there are no unusual severance agreements 
in the employment contracts of the members of the 
executive board.
evaluation
an evaluation of the supervisory board is undertaken 
annually. every second year, this takes place on the 
basis of an external evaluation process.
activities
six meetings of the supervisory board were held in 
2020. due to covid-19, five of the meetings were held 
as video conferences, while one in-person meeting 
was held in nuuk, greenland. the audit committee 
held four meetings. in addition to the annual report 
and audit minutes, the committee also considers 
financial policy, risk and insurance policies, internal 
audits, financial conditions and audit evaluation. 
88
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
91
90
royal greenland a/s
associated
royal greenland 
seafood a/s, 
svenstrup
pelagic greenland 
a/s, nuuk
arctic fish greenland 
a/s, nuuk
gaia fish a/s,
nuuk
inughuit seafood a/s, 
qaanaaq
ice trawl greenland 
a/s, sisimiut
agama royal greenland 
llc, rusland
ejendomsselskabet 
suliffik a/s, nuuk
akia sisimiut a/s,
sisimiut
angunnguaq a/s,
sisimiut
savik aps,
qasigiannguit
isblink a/s,  
paamiut
sisimiut fish a/s,
sisimiut
frans peter aps,  
sisimiut
lennert og sønner aps,
sisimiut
100%
66,7%
80,11%
50%
50%
50%
50%
30,3%
17,5%
49,4%
35%
49%
49%
43,6%
40%
conche seafoods ltd., 
canada
b&l fisheries ltd., 
canada
st. anthony seafoods ltd.,   
canada
quinlan brothers maritime 
ltd., associated, canada
international seafood  
s.a., associated, chile
blue ocean seafood spa, 
associated, chile
royal greenland 
vertriebs gmbh, tyskland
100%
100%
75%
50%
50%
50%
100%
company details & 
group chart
company
royal greenland a/s 
qasapi 4 
p.o. box 1073 
3900 nuuk
telephone: +299 32 44 22 
telefax: +299 32 33 49 
www.royalgreenland.com
cvr-no. 13645183
financial year:  
january 1st  – december 31st 
 
registered in: kommuneqarfik sermersooq
the government of greenland owns all shares 
in the company
auditors: ey grønland 
godkendt revisionsanpartsselskab
royal greenland 
germany gmbh, tyskland 
royal greenland poland 
sp. zoo, polen
quin-sea 
fisheries ltd., canada
eastern quebec  
seafoods ltd., canada
royal greenland  
norway as, norge
a&l seafoods ltd, canada
royal greenland  
sweden ab, sverige
royal greenland  
uk ltd., england
royal greenland  
japan ltd., japan
royal greenland  
italy spa., italien
qaleralik a/s
associated, nuuk
royal greenland  
rusland llc, rusland
Øksfjord eiendom 
as, associated, 
norge
royal greenland  
us inc., usa
royal greenland seafood 
(qingdao) co. ltd., kina
royal greenland seafood 
chile spa, chile
Øksfjord lakseindustri 
as, norge
kvalvikbait as 
associated, norge
qingdao beiyang jiamei 
seafood co. ltd., ass., kina
gaia fish a/s, nuuk
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
100%
100%
100%
100%
23%
20%
50%
49%
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
93
92
qaarsut / uummannaq  ■    
■   saattut 
■   ikerasak 
■   kullorsuaq 
■   nutaarmiut 
■   tasiusaq 
■   upernavik 
aappilattoq ■  
innaarsuit ■  
upernavik kujalleq ■  
■   nuussuaq 
■   qaanaaq 
ukkusissat  ■    
royal greenland owns 37 facilities in greenland, of which four are operated in  
collaboration with local fishermen and employees. all facilities are in opera tion. 
the facilities' activities range from production and packaging of finished products, to packaging of 
semi-manufactures for further processing in asia, germany or poland, and e.g. block freezing and 
salting.
production units in greenland
qaanaaq
innaarsuit
tasiusaq
ukkusissat
saattut
ikerasak
qaarsut
uummannaq
aappilattoq (north)
kullorsuaq
upernavik
nuussuaq
upernavik kujalleq
nutaarmiut
 1950s
1995
1997
1989
1986
1990
1995
1949
1992
 1991
1983
 2010
1959
 1997
plant manager: john olsen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: greenland halibut, j-cut, heads, 
tails & hog
capacity: 3 t/day
cold store capacity: 230 ton
employees: 10 in the season 
as of 1/10 2014, j/v inughuit seafood 
a/s with 50% rg ownership. 
plant manager: avigiaq suersaq
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, heads, tails, whole fish
capacity: 15 t/day
cold store capacity: 550 ton
employees: 10-20 low/peak seasons 
plant manager: najannguaq olsvig
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, heads, tails, whole fish
capacity: 20 t/day
cold store capacity: 600 ton
employees: 10-20 low/peak seasons 
plant manager: johanne knudsen 
samuelsen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, heads, tails, whole fish
capacity: 4.5 t/day
cold store capacity: 100 ton
employees: 1-10 low/peak seasons 
new freezing facilities in 2013, new 
drying house in 2013.
plant manager: marie knudsen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, heads, tails, whole fish
capacity: 15 t/day
cold store capacity: 400 ton
employees: 1-15 low/peak seasons 
current unit was refurbished in 1998, 
when the large freezing facility was also 
taken into use. two new plate freezers 
in 2018
plant manager: elisabeth filemonsen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: whole fish, fillets with skin, 
heads, tails, j-cut
capacity: 10 t/day
cold store capacity: 169 ton
employees: 2-25 low/peak seasons 
the unit has only been refurbished to a 
small degree since it was established. 
new freezing facilities were established 
in 2008.
plant manager: dorthe kristensen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: -
capacity: -
cold store capacity: -
employees: 2-4
factory manager: kirsten a. k. worm
primary species: greenland halibut
products: whole greenland halibut, 
heads, tails, fillets and j-cut
capacity: 50 t/day
cold store capacity: 1,600 ton
employees: 10-50 low/peak seasons 
current location since 1966, but the unit 
has been expanded several times. 
in 2017 a large expansion took place.
plant manager: justine petersen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, heads, tails, whole fish
capacity: 15 t/day
cold store capacity: 450 ton
employees: 4-10 low/peak seasons 
newly constructed in 2017
plant manager: juliane danielsen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: freezing of greenland halibut
capacity: 10 t/day
cold store capacity: 800 ton
employees: 4-10 low/peak seasons 
factory manager: hans peter kristensen
primary species: greenland halibut
products: freezing of greenland halibut
capacity: 5 t/day
cold store capacity: 200 ton
employees: 4-10 low/peak seasons 
factory manager: pernille f. karlsen 
primary species: greenland halibut
products: freezing of greenland halibut
capacity: 3 t/day
cold store capacity: 130 ton
employees: 1-7 low/peak seasons 
plant manager: magnus grim
primary species: greenland halibut
products: freezing of greenland halibut
capacity: 2 t/day
cold store capacity: 100 ton
employees: 1-7 low/peak seasons 
plant manager: arnannguaq b. eskildsen 
primary species: greenland halibut
products: freezing of greenland halibut
capacity: 12 t/day
cold store capacity: 600 ton
employees: 10-15 low/peak seasons 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
95
94
■   saqqaq 
■   ilulissat 
■   qasigiannguit 
■   akunnaaq 
■   niaqornaarsuk 
■   sarfannguaq 
sisimiut  ■  
qeqertarsuaq  ■    
qeqertaq  ■    
kangaatsiaq  ■    
ikamiut  ■    
ikerasaarsuk  ■    
attu  ■    
saqqaq
qeqertaq
ikamiut
qasigiannguit
ikerasaarsuk
attu
sisimiut
sisimiut (roe)
sarfannguaq
qeqertarsuaq
akunnaaq
ilulissat
kangaatsiaq
niaqornaarsuk
1983
1992
1932
1940s
1950
1959
1914
1996-97
1990
1934
1948
1920s
1950s
1948
plant manager: mathias nielsen
primary species: greenland  
halibut, other fish
products: whole greenland halibut  
frozen in blocks
capacity: 14 t/day
cold store capacity: 110 ton
employees: 2-10 low/peak seasons 
the unit burned down in 2003. the 
current facility opened in 2005.
plant manager: anna marie mølgaard
primary species: greenland halibut
products: j-cut, whole fish
capacity: 20 t/day
cold store capacity: 100 ton
employees: 15 low/peak seasons
plant manager: miijuk miunge
primary species: salted cod, greenland 
halibut, lumpfish roe
products: salted cod, dried fish. hog 
greenland halibut, hog cod
capacity: 1.5 t/day
cold store capacity: 20 ton
employees: 0 
factory manager: hans grønvold
primary species: greenland halibut,cod, 
other fish, lumpfish roe
products: greenland halibut fillets, frills, 
heads, iqf fillets, loins, cod fillet/whole
capacity: 25 ton greenland halibut/day
cold store capacity: 1,800 ton
employees: 130 low/peak seasons 
refurbished as a prawn factory in 1952 
and several times later on. closed in 1997. 
recommenced operations in 2000 and 
refurbished in 2011.
plant manager: klaus jonathansen
primary species: cod, lumpfish roe
products: salted fish from cod and ugaq, 
lumpfish roe
capacity: 5 t/day
cold store capacity: no cold store
employees: 1-10 low/peak seasons 
renovated in 1995.
plant manager: tikkili ezekiassen
primary species: cod
products: salted fish, lumpfish roe, frozen 
cod and other species
capacity: 2 t/day
cold store capacity: 20 ton
employees: 0 
factory manager: hans lars olsen
primary species: prawns, cod, snow crab
products: cooked & peeled prawns, cod 
fillets, crab sections, cod
capacity: 120 ton prawns, 6 ton snow 
crab/day, 50 ton cod/day
cold store capacity: 1,600 ton
employees: 100-150 low/peak seasons 
current unit built in 1969 for production of 
cod and prawns, renovated in 1992 and 
2011 into a modern prawn processing 
facility.
factory manager: hans lars olsen
primary species: lumpfish roe
products: lumpfish roe in container
capacity: 4 ton cod/day
cold store capacity: no cold store
employees: 8 in roe season
operational in roe season
plant manager: paarnannguaq  
jonathansen
primary species: cod
products: salted fish of cod and cod 
frozen in blocks
capacity: 15 t/day
cold store capacity: 60 ton
employees: 1-13 low/peak seasons 
renovated in 2005.
factory manager: mona lisa isaksen
primary species: snow crab, cod,  
greenland halibut, lumpfish roe
products: crab sections, fish frozen in 
blocks, lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: 10 ton snow crab, 1 ton fish/day
cold store capacity: 100 ton
employees: 3-30 low/peak seasons 
the unit has previously handled prawn, 
meat and frill production, but now  
produces crab and fish. 
plant manager: peter nielsen
primary species: cod, greenland halibut
products: salted cod, dried fish. hog 
greenland halibut, hog cod
capacity: 0 t/day
cold store capacity: 40 ton
employees: 0 
stand-alone plate freezer for freezing, 
plus 2 x 20 foot containers (40 tonnes) 
installed in 2018. 
factory manager: stefán h. tryggvason 
(prawn), nielsine hansen (halibut)
primary species: prawns, greenland halibut
products: iqf prawns, prawnmeal,  
greenland halibut j-cut, heads, tails, whole 
fish, cod
capacity: 100 t prawns, 20 t fish/day
cold store capacity: 1,100 ton
employees: 100-121 low/peak seasons 
the current unit was established in 1961 
and has been refurbished several times. 
new greenland halibut factory in 1998, 
closed in 2009. prawn factory renovated in 
2010, 2016, 2018 and 2019.
factory manager: jørgen inusugtoq
primary species: cod, lumpfish roe
products: cod frozen in blocks, fillet, 
lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: 15 t/day freezing
cold store capacity: 100 ton
employees: 2-25 low/peak seasons 
the unit was renovated/built in 1986 in 
its current form with production of cod. 
today, cod and other fish are frozen and 
in the season lumpfish roe is processed.  
rebuilt for cod fillet production 2015.
plant manager: judithe wille
primary species: cod, lumpfish roe
products: salted fish, lumpfish roe
capacity: 5 t/day
cold store capacity: no cold store
employees: 4-10 low/peak seasons 
refurbished and renovated in 1995. 
expanded in 2013.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
97
96
itilleq  ■   
maniitsoq 
■   atammik 
■   paamiut 
narsaq 
■   aappilattoq 
■   kangaamiut   
nuuk  ■    
qeqertarsuatsiaat  ■    
kangaamiut
itilleq
paamiut
qeqertarsuatsiaat
narsaq
aappilattoq (south)
maniitsoq
atammik
nuuk
1944
1949
1920
1983
1951
1981
1949-50
1992
1959
plant manager: larsen sofiaaraq larsen
primary species: cod, wolffish, greenland 
halibut, lumpfish roe
products: whole fish, winter-dried cod, 
dried wolffish, lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: 5 t/day
cold store capacity: 30 ton
employees: 4-16 low/peak seasons 
renovated in 1994/95. expansion of the 
freezing capacity and cold store.
plant manager: otto enoksen
primary species: cod and lumpfish roe
products: salted fish and lumpfish roe
capacity: 2.5 t/day
cold store capacity: none
employees: 1-7 low/peak seasons 
renovated in 1991/93 and in 1994/95.
factory manager: jan jørgensen
primary species: snow crab, greenland 
halibut, lumpfish roe, cod and other fish
products: crab sections, halibut fillets, 
dried cod, lumpfish roe and freezing
capacity: crab sections 10 t/day, 
fillets 20 t/day 
cold store capacity: 500 ton
employees: 10-50 low/peak seasons 
refurbished from cod production to 
smokehouse in 1997. closed in 2003. 
prawn and crab production established in 
2004. in 2012, the prawn production was 
closed in favour of the cod filleting line. 
plant manager: konrad boye
primary species: cod, lumpfish roe
products: salted fish, cod iqf, cod frozen 
in blocks, lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: 4 ton salted fish, 18 ton fish/day
cold store capacity: 80 ton
employees: 6-16 low/peak seasons 
factory manager: niels sakariassen
primary species: lumpfish roe, cod
products: lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: freezing of 20 t/day
cold store capacity: 600 ton
employees: 1-10 low/peak seasons 
renovated in 1995.
plant manager: nikolaj benjaminsen 
primary species: greenland halibut, cod
products: freezing
capacity: 4 t/day
cold store capacity: 70 ton
employees: 3  
first sales of raw materials initiated in 
2014 after refurbishment and modernisa-
tion of cooling plant. 
factory manager: susanne marie olsen
primary species: nutaaq cod, cod, 
greenland halibut, lumpfish roe,  
dried fish and other fish
products: cod fillets, halibut fillets,  
lumpfish roe, dried fish and freezing
capacity: 80 ton/day
cold store capacity: 500 ton
employees: 25-100 low/peak seasons 
filleting line and production of dried cod for 
the home market established.
plant manager: tippu-bolatta jakobsen
primary species: cod, wolffish,  
lumpfish roe
products: whole fish, salted fish,  
lumpfish roe in barrels
capacity: 3 ton freezing, 4 ton salting/day
cold store capacity: 8 ton
employees: 4-20 low/lumpfish roe season
expansion of the cold store and freezing 
capacity. 8-10 ton freezing, 4 ton salting. 
factory manager: abia thorsteinsen 
primary species: cod, greenland halibut, 
redfish, wolffish, lumpfish roe
products: lumpfish roe, whole fish iqf, 
products for the home market
capacity: 50 t/day
cold store capacity: 200 ton
employees: 12-40 low/peak seasons 
godthåb fiskeindustri taken over in 1990, 
prawn production closed in 2002.
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
99
98
royal greenland now operates 9 factories in canada. in newfoundland, there are seven production 
units where local fishermen land their catches. the primary species originating from newfoundland 
are snow crab, prawn, whelk, lobster, herring, cod, greenland halibut and capelin. 
in the town matane in the quebec province eastern quebec seafoods ltd. lands and processes prawns 
and crab, primarily from the local fishing areas. in louisbourg, nova scotia, a&l seafoods operates a 
crabfactory.
production units in canada
cupids
cape broyle
new harbour
conche seafood
louisbourg
old perlican
matane
st. anthony
southern harbour
1960
1990/65
1985
1960
1980
 1960
 2006
 1960
factory manager: chris butler
primary species: ground fish, pelagics
products: split/salt fish,  
block frozen capelin/herring/mackerel
capacity: 38 t/day
cold store capacity: 1000 ton
employees: 30 low/peak seasons
factory manager: doug young
primary species: snow crab, pelagics, 
scallops, sea cucumber, cod
products: crab sections/cooked/raw 
snow crab, block frozen capelin/herring/
mackerel, butterfly cut/gutted sea cucum-
ber, j-cut/h&g/hog greenland halibut
capacity: 110 t/day
cold store capacity: 75 ton
employees: 135 low/peak seasons
cold storage 
manager: chris butler
cold store capacity: 1000 ton
employees: 4
live lobster holding 
manager: chris fong
factory manager: stedman letto
primary species: snow crab, whelk, 
pelagics, lobster
products: crab sections/cooked snow 
crab, in shell/cooked whelk, block frozen 
capelin/herring/mackerel, j-cut/h&g/hog 
greenland halibut, lobster fresh/frozen
capacity: 145 t/day
cold store capacity: 50 ton
employees: 70 low/peak seasons
factory manager: joe anthony
primary species: snow crab
products: crab sections
employees: 90 
factory manager: guido koenigs
primary species: prawns, snow crab, 
whelk, scallop, cod
products: cooked & peeled, iqf,  
crab sections/cooked snow crab,  
in shell/cooked whelk, scallops
 capacity: 195 t/day
cold store capacity: 300 ton
employees: 400 low/peak seasons
factory manager: stephane garon
primary species: prawns, snow crab
products: cooked and peeled prawns, 
crab sections
capacity: 45 t/day
employees: 120 low/peak seasons 
factory manager: interim stedman letto
primary species: prawn, snow crab, 
products: cooked & peeled prawns, crab 
sections
capacity: 30 t/day
employees: 120 low/peak seasons
factory manager: phonse white
primary species: capelin, heering, mack-
erel, lobster, ground fish
products: block frozen capelin/herring/
mackerel, fresh/frozen lobsteer
capacity: 24 t/day
cold store capacity: 80 ton
employees: 50-100 low/peak seasons
old perlican    
southern harbour 
■   conche seafood 
cape broyle 
cupids 
matane  ■   
st. anthony  ■   
louisbourg  ■   
new harbour 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
101
100
the coastal fleet comprises 2 vessels for catching prawns, cod and crab.  
catches are landed at landing points along the west coast of greenland. 
the royal greenland fleet
- in shore
lomur
sermilik
1988
1986
master: jakup eli bech
mikael brandt 
length/width: 43.2 x 9.6 m
production capacity: 60 ton/day
catch capacity: 6,000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 130 ton
crew: 11 men
trawler type: coastal prawn trawler
ownership: rg 75%
master: nuka levisen
niels jørgen møller
length/width: 26 x 8 m
production capacity: 20 ton/day
catch capacity: 2,500 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 45 ton
crew: 6-9 men
trawler type: coastal prawn trawler, iced 
prawns, cod, sea cucumber
ownership: rg 100%
royal greenland runs five factories at three locations in cuxhaven. they produce lumpfish roe in jars, 
the zip-lock/chain-pack range and fresh fish, as well as prawns in brine, and packed frozen prawns. 
the factories are subject to shared management and administration.
production units in europe
■   cuxhaven 
royal greenland a/s - 2020
annual report
103
102
royal greenland's offshore fleet consists of three ocean-going prawn trawlers, two 
ocean-going production trawlers for greenland halibut, cod etc., one line vessel for 
greenland halibut, cod etc. and two trawlers for pelagic fishing. 
the royal greenland fleet
- offshore
sisimiut
avataq
2019
2019
master: ivan olsen
pauli olsen
length/width: 82,65 x 17 m
production capacity: 30-50 ton/day
catch capacity: 7-8.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 7-900 ton
crew: 42 men
trawler type: ocean-going fish trawler
ownership: rg 100%
"sisimiut" is designed specifically for
fishing in the sometimes harsh and icy
waters of the north atlantic, and is
packed with modern equipment. one of
the main focus points in the design  
process has been to utilize marine 
resources 100%. for the same reason, a 
fishmeal /oil factory has been installed in 
order to process all cuts and by-catches to 
commercially viable products.
master: jogvan trondarson 
tordar dimon
length/width: 83 x 18 m
production capacity: 110 ton/day
catch capacity: 7-10.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 6-800 ton
crew: 30 men
trawler type: ocean-going prawn-/ 
fish trawler
ownership: rg 100%
 “avataq” is greenland's largest fishing
vessel. the vessel can fish with three 
trawls
and as something new the ship can
switch between prawn and greenland  
halibut fishing giving great flexibility in 
fishing.this means that the factory on 
board has two lines where one can sort, 
boil and freeze prawns, while the other is 
a line for greenland halibut.
tuugaalik
nataarnaq
masilik
tasiilaq
tuneq
2002
2001
2001
2003
1988
master: regin henriksen
pauli justinussen 
length/width: 66.4 x 14.6 m
production capacity: 80 ton/day
catch capacity: 6 -7.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 800 ton
crew: 25 men
trawler type: ocean-going greenland 
halibut-/mackerel trawler
ownership: rg 25%
master: martin jacobsen/davur mohr
length/width: 67.5 x 14.5 m
production capacity: 110 ton/day
catch capacity: 7-10,000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 600 ton
crew: 22-24 men
trawler type: ocean-going prawn trawler
ownership: rg 50%
master: hans petur samuelsen
gunnar olsen
length/width: 52 x 12 m
production capacity: 20 ton/day
catch capacity: 3-5.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 350 tons
crew: 18 men
trawler type: line boat 
ownership: rg 100%
master:jonfridur poulsen
length/width: 84 x 14,6 m
production capacity: 200 ton/day
catch capacity: 20-25.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 1400 tons
crew: 25 men
trawler type: pelagic trawls and purse 
seines
ownership: rg 66%
bought in 2020
master: kári petersen
length/width: 70 x 12,5 m
production capacity: 60 ton/day
catch capacity: 10-15.000 ton/yearly
hold capacity:500 tons
crew: 10-12 men
trawler type: pelagic trawl 
ownership: rg 66%
akamalik
2001
master: linjohn christiansen/
torbjørn joensen
length/width: 75.8 x 14.5 m
production capacity: 110 ton/day
catch capacity: 7-10,000 ton/yearly
hold capacity: 450-750 ton
crew: 22-26 men
trawler type: ocean-going prawn trawler
ownership: rg 100%
royal greenland a/s
2020
